How you guys see
different sectors evolving...
Where can me, as either an investor,
or somebody looking to start my career
as a young man or woman
have enough tailwinds that it makes sense
to spend the next decade in?
-[inaudible conversations]
-[Nikhil] Ready?
Yeah. Yeah, start.
So, maybe we start with
small introductions,
maybe two minutes on who you are,
how you got to be where you are,
and what you're doing now.
Would you like to go first?
Sure. You know, I started...
Well, depending on how far back
you want to go, I was... from India.
-Why Deedy?
My real name is Debarghya Das.
In the city of Calcutta,
that's not as uncommon a name
as you'd think.
But even in the city of Calcutta,
where I'm from,
nobody could say that name.
So very quickly in high school,
we had to call me something else,
and my initials are "DD."
But then that didn't solve the problem
because then you have to explain
what my name actually is anyway.
And so, then I just came up
with the moniker Deedy.
Not Dee Dee, the Dexter's sister.
And so, I spelt a little bit differently.
And that's what's stuck.
So that's stuck in high school
and it's been Deedy ever since.
So what did you study?
When did you come here?
-What do you do now?
-Awesome.
2011, got to America for the second time.
I was here as a kid for a bit.
I went to Cornell.
I studied computer science.
I did my undergrad and my masters.
First job was Meta in New York.
Did that for a year.
Then went to Google in New York,
travelled a little bit.
So spent some time in Israel, Bangalore.
And then I was on the founding team
of a company called Glean,
which is a GC-backed company as well.
And spent a good four years there.
Towards the end of my time at Glean,
I went from doing engineering,
to managing,
to running their AI product line.
What did Glean do?
Glean started
as an enterprise search business.
I'm happy to dive into what that means.
And then it evolved into
generally an enterprise assistant
and knowledge finding tool
for bigger companies to figure out
answers to questions like,
"What do I do for onboarding?"
Or, "What is our holiday policy?"
Or even very specific questions about
"What does this person do at the company?"
And, "How can I find this doc?"
All of that stuff.
Glean is now, like, $7 billion company.
It's done fairly well so far.
After four years there,
I decided to try something else.
My friends would joke,
I, in a span of two years,
I went from engineering, management,
product, and then venture.
But I was just looking
for something fun to do.
And so, I joined Menlo about
a year and a half ago...
And I'm at Menlo right now.
And what does Menlo look at specifically?
So, you know, Menlo, to give a background,
it's been around for quite a bit of time.
It's a 48-year-old fund.
We're now investing
out of a $1.5 billion fund,
but we have, like,
about 7 billion under management.
Our focus right now is, you know, our...
Maybe landmark investment today
is we're big investors in Anthropic.
But our focus right now,
and my focus at least,
is seed and series A deals for AI,
SaaS infra, sort of all over now.
Nowadays, everything is a bit of AI.
But the entire fund
does everything up to, like,
a series B and sometimes
C's and D's as well.
-So...
-[Nikhil] Right.
We also do have a good biotech practice
and a consumer practice,
and the rest of the stuff we do
is primarily, like, software-adjacent.
What is the Anthropic story?
Can you summarise for us?
Oh, my God. What is the story?
The Anthropic story was...
I'm probably
not the best person to tell the story,
but a few people left OpenAI,
wanted to do a foundational model
company somewhat differently.
And they built a--
And both of them
hadn't figured out a business.
And now, Anthropic
has sort of built a model
that eventually became
very good at coding.
And it got a ton of recognition for that.
And then it's sort of-- Now, Anthropic,
I would say, is a company that's,
you know, trying to solve AGI,
but they believe they're out there
is through reasoning, coding,
and things like this.
They, very distinctly, do not really
do much outside of text-to-text models.
So less audio stuff, video stuff,
things like that.
And that's really their primary focus.
And in terms of a business, they just
serve enterprise customers primarily.
They do have a consumer app,
but that's not really the prime business.
Thank you.
-Would you like to go next?
-Sure.
I'm Nikunj, I moved to the States
half my life ago.
Niko and I were just chatting about it--
Seventeen years ago,
I went to Urbana-Champaign
to do electrical engineering
and computer science.
And then I moved to the Bay 13 years ago.
Now you'll meet-- I don't know
what happens to both of you,
when new people in their 20s come here,
I feel like a boomer.
It's like, I legitimately feel old.
They're like, "When did you move here?"
"Thirteen years ago."
And they look at me
and they'll start eye rolling.
-"About three weeks ago."
-Exactly.
And then, yeah,
I was an operator for 11 years.
I started my career at LinkedIn.
I spent two years there.
And then quickly got the start-up bug.
Did four start-ups back-to-back
where I was the first PM at a few of them.
I joined a company called Hall,
which did enterprise communication.
I joined, and one week later,
Slack launched,
which was a tough one year.
-I've heard of that one.
-Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It was-- I picked the...
As venture capitalists say,
"You picked the right area
but the wrong horse."
You guys had a great URL back then,
right? Hall.com?
-We still have Hall.com. Yeah. Yeah.
-Yeah, amazing.
Atlassian bought the company,
didn't want to go back to a large company.
And then I joined a company called Shyp
that did first-mile parcel delivery.
I got really enamoured
by the physical world.
This was peak Uber days.
Uber was crushing.
I spent two years there. I really loved,
enjoyed, like, you know,
how do you build end-to-end products, iOS,
web, but with a large operations angle.
And then my best friend
worked at Opendoor,
which is like a real estate company.
He said, "Why don't you come join
the team there?"
Can you tell us a bit about Opendoor?
We were discussing earlier,
but it's interesting.
Yeah, it's in the news right now
because it's become a meme stock
that's, like, growing really well.
But I still fundamentally believe
in the mission.
So I think, unlike other countries
in the world,
where a transaction cost for buying
or selling a home is 1% or lower,
in the US, it's 6%.
Which means
when you're trying to sell a home,
agents take 6% of the commission.
And that's crazy.
Residential real estate
is the second largest asset class
in this country.
And there's a 6% tax to doing that.
Which is just mind-boggling to me
as, like, someone looking at the space.
And so the company was founded
by four founders,
Keith Rabois, Eric, JD, and Ian.
And their model was,
"We will buy your home unseen."
So, every home that's bought and sold
in the country
is on a register called the MLS.
And so, using machine learning, they said,
"Hey, we could figure out
what the true value of this home is."
So you enter an address,
answer a few questions,
and we give you an all-cash offer
to buy the home in one minute.
Which is very different than
you having to stage your home
and list your home
and pay an agent a transaction fee.
In one minute, you get that fee. So...
And Opendoor held the inventory,
they owned it.
Opendoor held the inventory.
So, yeah, we'd buy the home,
we would refurbish it,
and then we would buy--
From the buyer perspective, you could
enter any home anytime you want.
And you can buy the home.
All online, all transactional.
It was a great journey. I...
Some of my formative learnings
came from there.
I spent four years there.
Had to like, you know,
sort of come 2020,
had to fire 35% of the company.
And then we went IPO six months later.
Yes, craziest six months of my career.
But then I only like doing early stage.
So I joined a company called Meter
which does networking hardware.
-I'm meeting him tomorrow.
-Anil?
-Yeah.
-Yeah. He's...
-Yeah, he's amazing.
-Yeah.
I wish I get the opportunity
to back people like him.
GC did a big round there as well,
I think.
-Recently, yeah.
-[Nikhil] Yeah.
Yeah, it's a ten-year overnight
success story.
Company's been around for ten years.
Two brothers--
So tell us a bit about Meter.
Yeah. So similar to Opendoor
where, you know, there's so much friction
in the home buying and selling journey.
Today, if you want to equip a space
like this for Internet,
it takes six different entities to do it.
There's the Internet service provider,
there's a hardware maker,
there's a cabling installer.
There's like, you know,
other things you have to do.
And then you have to maintain
the networks over time.
And imagine doing that for like a 10,000
square feet, 100,000 square feet space.
And so, companies have to pay CapEx.
You're paying tens of thousands of dollars
in hardware upfront.
And you get nothing on day zero.
So Meter's completely
transformed the model
where you pay nothing upfront,
all the hardware is Meter's.
And you just pay per month
per square feet.
And they take care of all the hassle
and also the maintenance.
So you just, like, point to a space
and Meter takes care of everything.
I did ten years of start-ups by then.
And so, I was just looking
to figure out a way,
how can I help founder in the plural
rather than a founder singular?
And I wasn't sure
if I wanted to do investing.
So I was very lucky
that the Khosla Ventures team
and Vinod, especially, were very kind
to have me there for a year.
I was very open.
"I don't know anything about investing."
I've done angel investing,
but that's very different.
Spent a year there and really enjoyed it.
Their team is exceptional.
I can only say good things.
But decided I only wanted to be
part of a small fund.
Only doing seed in series A.
Each investment is like, you know,
very few investments a year.
Like I have a more concentrated sample.
So I just joined a new fund
called FPV Ventures
about a couple of months ago.
-How big is the fund?
-Fund is about five...
It's a fund tube. It's $525 million.
We primarily would focus on series A,
but we'll do some seed in series B
depending on the founders.
Right. And is there like a sector focus?
No, very generalist. And that's what
attracted me towards the fund.
Our Fund 1 has everything from biotech,
quantum computing,
AI chip design to consumer content.
Very much-- FPV stands for
Founder's Point of View.
And we mostly care about the founder
and the team that we meet.
[Nikhil] Nice.
-And how old are you, Nikunj?
-I'm 34.
And Deedy's 32?
Thirty-two.
-You're married?
-I'm married, two kids.
-And Deedy?
-Not yet.
-Okay.
-New Yorker state of mind, yeah.
-Yeah.
-Hopefully soon.
I have people watching this,
eligible bachelor.
You live in New York?
I used to live in New York, now I'm here.
Yeah. New York is probably a better city
to be single in.
It's not probable, it is 100%.
What are you gonna do about it?
-Niko, how old are you?
-I'm 40.
-Okay.
-So I'm a little bit older, yeah.
Yeah. Tell us about yourself.
I spend all of my time
with technical young founders.
Like my real passion is to obsess
with technical founders
who are building products for themselves.
I'm originally from Greece.
Made in Greece.
Grew up between Greece and the UK.
Have been in this part of the world,
Silicon Valley, since 2009
when the App Store was about one year old.
Got lucky, upon graduating from Stanford
to join General Catalyst.
I spent a bulk of the previous
15 years there.
And have been mostly investing in
first-time founders who have bold ideas.
They're the customers
of their own products
from all over the world.
I split time between here and New York.
And is there a sector that you look at?
I used to look more into consumer stuff,
but then what happened is,
over the last few years,
made a hard turn towards
very young founders, Gen Z-ers.
-[Nikhil] Right.
-And a lot of them have been AI curious.
And most of the interesting ones the last
few years were, like, enterprises.
-Right.
-I wouldn't care less about the sector.
For me, if you're as smart as you sound
at like 16, 19, 23, 25,
how much smarter can you be in five years?
Because the idea will change,
the product will change,
the market will evolve.
And what do I nail?
Pre-seed or seed, my own perspective
on the product or the market.
I'm not that smart.
Is that also Neeraj's team?
Do you work with Neeraj?
Neeraj joined us
with the Venture Highway team
a couple of years ago.
Yeah, I have worked with Neeraj,
of course.
Yeah. Hemant and Neeraj
are really good friends.
-They're awesome, yeah.
-We end up hanging out a lot.
-Also because they have India connection.
-Awesome people.
-Absolutely.
-Great people.
Great people.
So, what I was looking for today
is we seem to be at some kind
of a crossroad
where the rate of change seems to have
gone up in the world around us.
I allocate money.
I don't know what I would call it.
Private equity, venture capital,
whatever the term might be.
And I've been in the US
for a large part of the last two months
trying to get allocation
to different companies here.
So I'll share with you which those
companies are along the way,
and maybe we can debate them together,
and if it's the right valuation or not.
But more importantly,
I want to arrive at...
how you guys see
different sectors evolving.
Not today, but ten years from now.
Where can me as either an investor
or somebody looking to start my career
as a young man or woman
have enough tailwinds that it makes sense
to spend the next decade in?
Yeah? Interesting exercise?
-Sounds fabulous.
-Yeah, that's great.
Okay, so should we start with--
Maybe I'll go one by one
and ask you guys to name one sector
that you should absolutely
stay away from as an investor
or as somebody starting up
for the next decade.
Let's start with Deedy.
Wow, you put me on the spot.
You know,
this is a hard question to answer
because I have such a venture lens
on this.
And, you know, when you invest
as a venture capital fund,
there are certain attributes of a business
you're always looking at
when you need a certain return profile
for this investment to make sense.
So, typically sectors
that are really tough to invest in
are very high-CapEx sectors.
And it's not to say that those businesses
are not good businesses.
They're phenomenal businesses
in some cases, but it's just not...
it does not have the return profile
that most venture investors want.
And there are exceptions to that,
and there are certain ways
it can be very different.
But broadly, I would say it's hard
to disentangle myself from that bias.
Like, usually when you're buying up, like,
I don't know,
you're buying up tons of real estate.
That's, I mean,
Opendoor is a separate story.
But then it's a tough thing to invest in,
for example, as a venture capitalist.
-Forget the venture lens.
-Okay.
Just as an investor or somebody
starting a job in an industry,
which do you think has been most
headwind in the next ten years?
Like, somebody e-mails you
from a particular industry,
you'll be like,
"Okay, I'm not going to open this e-mail."
I mean, I don't think I have a very strong
bent against any particular industry.
I'm trying to say, like, all industries
are actually pretty important.
There are some that are maybe
falling now,
but it's impossible to know
how they would do in ten years.
Right? Like, I'll give you an example,
maybe it's probably not really gonna
answer your question.
But if you take something
like manufacturing,
which is a pretty traditional industry,
which may not have much takers
in the venture community,
there are some fantastic
manufacturing businesses
that are going to be built,
especially in the next ten years,
that have a whole other set
of interesting problems to solve.
Like, how do you solve a labour problem?
How do you manufacture
in certain countries?
Can you even do that?
What does tariffs mean for manufacturing
in different places in the world?
So, I think there's interesting businesses
in all sectors.
It's really hard-- And I don't know if...
I'm curious actually what you guys think,
is often when--
You have to have an open mind
as an investor
to hear out the idea in a certain sector,
because often it's from the places
you least expect it
that an interesting idea shows up.
-So you don't have a sector bias really.
-Not really.
I can hit you
with some of the pithy lines of like,
"Oh, who knows what's going to happen
to software engineering?"
But, like, it's not really a bias
against a sector.
It's just so hard to tell in the future
what's gonna happen.
-Nikunj?
-Yeah, I don't think...
I think some...
some industries don't have
the exponential rate of progress
that you need to be a venture capital--
A business that can attract
venture capital.
And so, I think those... you have to
realise like, venture capital is like...
I think we should not fixate upon
the term "venture capital."
But then I don't think...
I think every industry is interesting.
Let's say you have a hundred bucks,
or hundred dollars.
Where would you put it?
It's a very binary outcome.
And where would you not put it?
I think anything that is not technology,
like, forward, I would not put it.
But that's my bias because I've been
an engineer and been here 17 years.
But does that mean that you can't make
money of a traditional...
Like, my dad's in textile industry.
He's doing really well.
Like, you know.
But what I put a hundred dollars
or would I put a dollar there?
Probably not.
Because I just don't understand
that business really well.
And he's surrounded by like
mills and other...
Those are all traditional businesses
with very little technology.
They're still all printing money.
But it's... it is a bias.
This is why we can't...
I can't disassociate
venture capital or technology
from the way I view the world.
-Right.
-Because that's what I understand.
You put me in a traditional business--
Put me in my dad's business,
I will like, you know,
bankrupt the business the next day.
Because I don't get the whole...
-But I do think, like--
-Are tariffs helping your dad?
I mean, it doesn't hurt.
Most of his customers are Indian,
most of the mills are in India.
So it doesn't really affect him at all.
But I think from a...
So I think, for me, it's very hard to
disassociate technology or venture capital
from, like, how I would invest
because that's what I do.
And that's how I view the world.
But to... to Deedy's point, actually,
AI has actually made most industries
that were uninvestable
suddenly investable.
-For example?
-For example,
like any industry that's collecting
large amounts of data
was like, you know, prior... prior...
like, you wouldn't invest in them
because you were like, "Oh, there's no
clear way for you to understand this data.
No clear way
to take action on this data."
Now, that's become
an actual, like, asset.
Because now you can either
fine-tune models
or you can actually do
something interesting with them
that suddenly unlocks...
unlocks value out of those.
And... 2021,
interest rates spiked up a lot.
And ChatGPT launched at the end of 2021.
It was the literal perfect intersection.
Because when interest rates rised up,
everybody's cost went up.
Everybody's cost went up
means everybody wants efficiency.
Everybody wants efficiency,
what is the only boat that is lifting,
like, you know?
What is the only tide
that's lifting all boats?
It's AI.
So factories are now asking and coming
and begging for solutions.
That never used to happen before.
Long sales cycles,
nobody wanted to invest there.
Agriculture: People were like, you know--
Traditional industry,
nobody wants to touch.
You were like,
"What's the tailwind there?"
And so, all of those industries
that felt a little bit archaic,
a little bit that,
"Hey, nobody wants to touch",
suddenly, the buyer's waking up saying,
"Hey, I want a solution."
And so people are rising to the occasion
and building things.
And I actually push, I mean,
I'm on the opposite spectrum of Deedy.
High CapEx is actually OK.
Because there's ways to finance it.
And we're finally finding a way
that everything is getting cheaper.
Robotics is a good prime example of that.
But I don't think CapEx
is the big problem anyway.
It's just, like, can you find
a tailwind in that industry?
And that's what makes it good
for venture capital.
It's very hard to, like, dissect the two.
I wouldn't know.
I don't know what I would do
without technology.
So interest rates going down now
will have the opposite effect?
I don't think we're going to go back to
ZERP era any time soon.
So, interest rates might go down
like 50 bips.
But it doesn't change
the outcome that much.
The genie is unlocked.
Once you get used to high efficiency,
why would you do?
And then if you look at
what Gen Z wants to do now,
they don't want to work
as a dishwasher in a restaurant.
They want to be the next influencer
or build the next business.
How are you going to replace that labour?
Technology is the only way
you can do that.
Whether it's factory workers
or it's back-office workers,
whether it's, you know, dishwasher.
This is the only way that you can do it.
And that's great,
because suddenly, that area that
was not investable before
has suddenly become.
Because everyone's a buyer
is not going to do it asking for it.
Interesting. Niko?
So as an investor,
a real estate investor,
I would just like to avoid anything
that's super, super, super hot.
As an early investor.
If it's something
that everyone is going after,
if it's an idea that's getting
tried now 100 times,
it's probably too late, you know,
as a very early investor.
Of course, the founders matter the most
as we all have agreed here already.
So if you think this is the founder
or the team
that are going to defy the odds,
they're going to out-execute everyone else
in a very capital-intensive
labour-intensive business,
go for it.
Otherwise, anything that
at the very early stage,
ten companies going after it,
it's probably too late.
In today's universe,
I would avoid doing anything in China,
as somebody who is US-based.
That's not a controversial statement.
Ten years from today?
A lot might happen.
And, you know, a lot might change.
And Niko, what is too hot today
that everybody is going after?
Do you want to give some ideas?
There's so many.
Reinforcement learning.
OK.
Reinforcement learning environments
is a hot space.
Reinforcement learning as a service
How about some AI code gen tools?
-AI code gen is...
-App builders.
-App builders, yeah.
-Receptionists.
AI receptionists.
Multiple applications
of voice for, you know,
the same sort of
ten things are pretty hot.
I mean, it's honestly amazing.
You know, when you open up
your email as a venture capitalist,
you know, your X or any other
inboxes you have.
Like, honestly, nine out of ten
inbound requests you receive,
they all sound the same.
Like, if you're trying to do something,
is to break the pattern of like everything
sounding the same
and try to find something that's like,
"Huh, maybe this is different."
Of course, it's hard
to decide, yes or no,
to take a meeting without
knowing the founders.
That's why, you know, warm intros matter.
Or like, founders
that don't have a resume
could be the ones
that could thread the needle.
Because a lot of the very young founders
for like 16, 18, 23,
they might not even be on LinkedIn
because Gen Z is not on LinkedIn.
Or if you go there,
have plenty of random internships.
And some of my favourite, you know,
social media posts that I love seeing
are like the NVIDIA CEOs
before NVIDIA, you know?
-Dennis. He was a busboy.
-Dennis.
And you see some of this and you're like,
"Yes, how can I find one of those people,"
you know?
-Right.
-Yeah.
Which are some of the popular
companies which are doing
the things you said, AI code gen,
reinforcement learning?
AI receptionist?
Name some names?
I mean, there's Anthropic
doing AI code gen,
but they're pretty good at it.
-It's also Cursor, right?
-Biased.
-There's also Cursor.
-Cursor.
Cursor's also doing AI code gen,
of course.
So these are both fairly successful
companies, at least so far.
What else can we talk about?
AI receptionist,
voice applications for the same.
I mean, there's... I can't even
remember some of these names,
but I mean,
it's not trivial to find a hot space.
I mean, you just have to go on,
like, say the YC list.
I mean, you're going to find
every year has some patterns.
And I guess when
Niko is saying that, you know,
those patterns are maybe the hot ones.
I don't want to put words in your mouth.
What's the pattern this year?
-Cursor 4.
So there was a funny tweet the other day
that said, "Y Combinator
stands for Y Cursor," you know?
The C in YC stands for Cursor.
Because if you want to like the demo day
or like the company directory over there
and type Cursor, it could be Cursor
for property management,
Cursor for investors, blah, blah, blah.
The one crazy space
I've seen in the last year
is just like the AI scribes
for healthcare companies.
Typically, when you see,
you see one move
ahead of the pack
and others are just doing...
Look at the AI scribe market.
There's at least eight companies I know,
all doing double digit
million dollars in ARR,
all started within the last few years.
And all growing double digit
month over month.
Which is crazy.
You just don't see a market like that
to give them the voice side.
This is like someone just like
transcribing your notes.
This is like a pro, right?
You're talking about something
you should look at.
No, I'm just saying you asked, like,
"What are the hot markets?"
I'm just saying there are hot markets.
But sometimes, as VCs,
we look away at a hot market
because the markets...
but the market's so large
that they can be six players
all growing like crazy.
So, it's still like a market
I wouldn't look at now
because I feel it's too late.
But as an early-stage investor...
But it's crazy that even though
there are these markets
where there's too many players playing,
there's an example of one
where you have like many, many
players all doing very well.
If you could each identify a trend in AI
that is changing,
that somebody who is unaware like me
does not know,
what would you say?
One nuanced trend that is changing in AI.
There's a couple I could say.
I don't know.
Hard to guess what you may
or may not know, but...
Imagine nothing.
Well, one is like, talk of the town,
is how much Zuck wants to pay people.
So some people call it like
engineers being athletes of today,
which is interesting.
It's not really tech-focused,
but it is a theme.
The second I would say is,
you know, we've run out of public data.
And we talked about RL
in a different context earlier,
but reinforcement learning
has been the primary technique
for with which models
get better over time.
And acquiring data to do
good reinforcement learning is
quite different than how you would
acquire data otherwise.
So that is another trend.
So when everybody
runs out of data,
they create synthetic
and keep improving the model?
It's not exactly like that.
I mean,
in reinforcement learning, you basically
want an environment where
there is certain rewards you can get,
sometimes they're extremely
verifiable rewards,
in which case it be RLVR,
sometimes they're more nuanced,
where it's like text.
Like how do you verify that?
But there are... you can use an LLM
as a judge to verify that.
So there's various kinds of rewards,
but it's...
One way to think about it is, yes,
you are generating an environment
where there's rewards
and you're making the model
become better at that task.
In a similar way that you would do,
for example, when Google did AlphaGo
and you train an AI to learn a game,
you have a reward,
which is winning the game
and then you figure out the steps
in the middle.
So it's not really synthetic data per se.
That is also used,
but it's a different step.
But that's what I meant
by reinforcement learning.
Let's see, what else.
Number three, I think is not
talked about enough is China,
which is...
You know, then the narratives
around China are interesting
because most people in America,
I feel, don't want to even recognise
how good these models can be
with perhaps far less
capital expenditure, right?
They're not spending that much for talent.
They're not spending that much
in even GPU resources.
They don't have the latest
cutting-edge GPU resources.
Yet, somehow, they're able
to come up with models that are
not perhaps the best of the best,
but they're quite good.
They're frontier, as you say.
And so, those are some.
Those are just some.
Niko, would you like to add?
Did you mention evals?
-I did not mention that.
-Can you explain what it is?
So, when, let's say, you know,
you're an attorney or you're a doctor,
and then there is an AI or consultant,
and there is an AI model
that is trying to replicate
some of the day-to-day
tasks that you do,
there are always some corner cases,
some exceptions
that the model by itself,
even after you train it, you know,
with all the world's data
that's available out there
won't get to.
So, when you recruit
a consultant or the doctor
to take a look at it,
they could come up
with some of the exceptions
and further, you know, refine that model.
And I think that's a very big market
opportunity that's opening up right now.
We'll be going on,
you know, for a long time,
because you can bring in
entire new professions
and model them that you could do,
you know, as well today.
And it's just us coding, basically.
Nikunj?
I think the recent news that everybody
was jumping on was that, you know,
OpenAI won the IMO Gold and then
DeepMind also did that as well.
I think that was interesting, but I think
a lot of people missed in the details was,
OpenAI also had this competition
where they just barely came second,
where they had a single model
running for ten hours straight,
with no direction whatsoever.
And it was able to reason, figure out,
plan, go ahead, ten steps back.
But for ten hours straight,
it was able to do something.
And I think that's just like blew my mind,
that shows like what
the future capabilities will be,
where we're no longer, like,
you know, we already,
even if we stop all AI development today,
these models are already phenomenally good
to think and reason and give us
interesting solutions
for a long period of time.
And that's like mind-blowing to me
that we've already reached here
and everybody's kind of just like,
"Whoop-di-la", walking away next.
And so imagine you can throw these models
at like problems for ten hours straight,
like, you know,
whether it's the bare minimum
of doing research
on Deedy's every tweet on Twitter
to like, studying thousand
technical papers by the best researchers
and trying to find hidden
connections between them.
And it's... I think that's mind-blowing.
I think this was not the case
even two years ago.
That's why agents, AI agents sucked,
is because they couldn't reason,
they couldn't understand.
And in two years,
just with the models getting better,
all of these things are now unlocked.
Where, you know, whether it's research
on the biotech space to like, you know,
astronomy, like we'll be able
to find new stars.
I think we haven't even
touched the frontier,
what these models can do.
And then we're only limited by like,
compute energy and like, essentially data,
which I think, continue
to be the three modes that
kind of continue along
with models perspective.
Anything else?
I think we just,
you know, I think everybody
talks about AGI and ASI
as this like one moment.
I think my hot take would be like,
AGI is kind of already here,
but like humans, like,
when we take a Waymo ride,
the first time, it's mind-blowing to us.
And then the next time you just kind of
like on your phone checking Twitter.
I think we're already there
with these models today,
but these models are smarter
than most humans already.
And we've kind of just been like,
"Whatever", kind of like walked away.
And I think this is why
it's going to be a continuous spectrum.
where we will claim AGI is not here
maybe ten years from now,
but it's already kind of here.
In the not theoretical
definition maybe,
but in a capabilities perspective,
it's already better.
Yeah, and I think another area
that's becoming critically important
is like, what is the data set
and the models
that we can use to recreate
the physical world.
So, in the world where we can have
a lot of the robots that would do
a bunch of the manual labour
that it's hard to hire people for
because they don't want to
or it's expensive,
how do you get to the five nines
that you've described?
And you know, there are not that many
companies use the example
of autonomous vehicles
that have been taking photos,
videos and other inputs
of the offline world,
like Waymo, Tesla,
there are a few companies.
So where else, you know, can you find
other sources of such data?
Either real world data
or synthetic data
on the cheap, that's labelled
and easily ready to use.
This is a very important space and has
applications that can be in defence-tech,
and all sorts of robotics.
Yeah, so many, many.
This embodied intelligence space,
how you feed them with data,
it's going to be one of the most amazing
ones to do business in the next few years.
Do you think there's a use case
in India for that?
For specifically what Niko said?
-Yeah.
-Oh, that's a complicated one.
In terms of use case in India,
how do you mean,
like, will self-driving cars
make it to India?
-Or will it be able to?
-Let's say a robot has to make a sandwich.
-Yeah.
-Does it have to train on some visual data
that will be a job for someone else?
The training part?
-Yeah.
-It depends.
There's a couple of different ways
that people do it.
There's this whole technique
called Sim-to-Real where,
you know, you try to simulate
it as much as you can.
But then it's impossible
to simulate the physical world
and then you typically
get other sources of data.
And yes, there are some,
as far as I understand,
maybe you know more,
here are labellers that will label
this data in various companies.
And those labellers can be sometimes
in India, sometimes elsewhere. Yeah.
In Philippines, like, I mean,
that's where Scale's biggest market.
Like, there are towns where it's almost
like a night and day difference.
There are towns
where it's like light all night.
And the entire team there is working on
some version of labelling.
Now, it could be labelling
text, image, video.
Last year, I talked to many startups where
they are basically building things that
they give to workers in countries
where labour is on their cheaper side,
where they're doing everyday tasks
and collecting that data
and then feeding it to the model.
It just makes sense.
It's like, you know,
how BPOs exist in these countries,
the new BPOs are these labellers
who will be basically getting data
that these large language
model companies need
to help make the models better.
It's just the next natural transition.
Yeah, I think in many parts
of the developing world
where labour is really cheap,
it might be harder to see
some of these applications very quickly
because the economics
might not make sense.
And then, the real bottleneck
for having robots, you know,
accompany us for our daily task
is that we need to make them.
So if you think about, you know,
the supply chain and everything required
to make a gazillion of them,
we might have AGI first,
you know, before robots actually
started attacking us and taking over
the means of production.
And the future, you know, might be bright,
you know, for them.
But not as much for the human race.
Just wanted to throw this out there
because I get a lot of people telling me,
you know, who are not
as intimately familiar with AI telling me,
"Oh, this is just pattern matching.
"It's just the internet,
yada, yada, yada, yada."
If you look up this paper
called Alpha Evolve from DeepMind,
it is literally a paper where
there are these simple math problems
that everybody can understand,
which is, you know, hexagon packing.
You have a hexagon, how many
of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, up to n hexagons
can you fit and how big
is the surrounding hexagon?
How small can you get the hexagon
and pack all of this stuff in?
And Alpha Evolve has made novel solutions
on this problem that, you know,
that haven't been improved
upon in 20, 30 years.
So just to be clear, like AI is very much
pushing the frontiers of human knowledge,
just in bits and pieces today
and we're going to see more of it.
But I just wanted to throw
that one out there.
What else do you think is changing?
Like, if you had to predict,
think of me as... I am an idiot
'cause I know nothing about this.
-You're not an idiot.
-I'm asking you to, like, prophesise
five years ahead
and paint a picture of the world for me.
One thing I think about, probably,
I don't know how much
you guys think about it,
but one thing I think about
that is not talked about in this regard
and maybe five years
is a bit short for this,
probably ten to 15 is...
is just birth-rate decline.
I think that's a very real problem.
I know it is also a funny problem
because there's all these sorts
of reasons why it's happening.
But it's especially stark, even if you go
as far as South Korea,
in two generations,
that country may be like a tenth
or less of the population it is today.
It's really bad.
But that has anything to do with AI?
It has a lot to do with the economy
and it has a lot to do with AI.
How?
I mean, I'd love to explore this
with all of you guys.
It's not a very well-formed thought
and I'm not an expert
in this by any means.
But a lot of economic growth
is subtly tied in
with the growth of the population.
The growth of consumption overall.
I mean, AI is no good unless you have
somebody using something at the other end.
Transactions have to be done
for economic value
for everyone to be prosperous.
And so if we see a world where
there's this rapid decline in population,
what does that mean for the economy?
What does that mean for, like,
clothing stores?
Are you going to be able
to sell clothing any more?
Or are you going to sell much less?
What happens to the stock
of that business?
So I don't know.
I think that's a less explored problem,
but it's going to be a slow burn.
But it's something that, you know, has...
The transactions have to go up
for productivity to go up?
What if the value of the transaction goes?
It's possible.
I think the amount that productivity,
there's an economic definition,
I guess, and then just
the general definition.
To go up, to counteract this effect
is, I think, somewhat unrealistic,
but again, I'm not an economist.
So I don't know.
And how does AI exaggerate
birth-rate decline?
I don't think necessarily
has anything to do with AI.
-I think there is a...
-There is a very clear chart.
Like, essentially, 2009,
it started declining.
We all know what launched in 2009,
which was the iPhone.
So it's not AI as much like our addiction
to digital media and phones in general.
And AI will be--
People are having less kids
because of iPhones.
I mean, there's no...
You can't directly...
You can't directly point to it, right?
There's no research that is that clear.
But it is, like, 2009 across the world.
And it's because, like, we're just
becoming more and more
dependent on our digital...
Our emotional needs are being satisfied
by more on the digital side,
whether it's, like, you know,
us watching YouTube shorts
versus going to a bar
to, like, date someone.
And I think AI will accelerate
this problem for sure.
Like, again, I do think we're...
we're confiding more in ChatGPT
than we talk to, like, our closest humans,
including, like, our own partners.
And I do think that has happened.
And there's no... there's no way that
you can ever draw a direct line,
but the trend is clear starting
when the mobile phone came out.
Young people now have less sex
because they're addicted to their phone.
And, you know, they don't even
know how to interact with another human,
especially in the...
in the post-COVID world.
You could see it with younger people
who missed out on school for,
like, a year or two.
And they were having a hard time
interacting with other people
in the offline world.
So when you have, you know, less sex
or you end up having it
much later in life,
and you get a lot of the dopamine
from digital experiences,
what does it mean, you know, for like,
the fertility rate,
what does it mean for a lot
of the vice-powered industries
in a world where, in the US and the West,
and then you have Ozempic
doing really well?
What does it mean for suppressing
other vices beyond those, like, you know,
excessive, you know, eating?
So that stuff is, like, very interesting
to just think about, like,
the secondary effects
that are very hard to imagine.
Because, for example, you know,
like, the go-back to tech with AVs, right?
If AVs are everywhere,
what does it mean, you know,
for the economy around gas stations,
or Costco, or, like, you know,
anyone who's applying stuff
to parking lots?
I have no idea, you know?
There might be, in this country,
amazing businesses, you know,
that are supplying products and services
to these hub verticals.
And, yeah, the rate is dramatically
accelerating.
For the first time,
there is a new form of intelligence,
that is going to be on par,
or, over time,
superior to a lot of the stuff
that we as humans, you know, can do.
So, you know, if you can borrow ideas from
the world of sci-fi, what does it mean?
Does it mean that we're going to
somehow fade in the background?
We're going to be, like, the same way
that we have pets or cats and dogs.
Right now, AI will love us,
and will feed us.
AI will assume the means of production,
will have universal basic income.
We'll be happy. Maybe we'll start
having more sex. I don't know.
Maybe the NBA will have 10,000 teams.
Maybe everyone will be a supermodel,
do sports, or become a poet.
But then, all the important decisions
around running the world,
allocating resources.
This new form of intelligence is going
to make these decisions, take over.
And, you know,
there's going to be the new species
that write the history books.
Who knows?
It's a bit like a democracy
and a smarter, benevolent,
maybe benevolent dictator on top.
Yeah.
Is it important that we are making
the decisions if something smarter
is more capable?
There are a lot of questions that,
you know, this question
raises here, right?
One of the good news is that AI is still
today's powered with electricity.
So, if we're unhappy,
we'll unplug it and we're good, right?
Because the battery technology
is not that sophisticated,
you know, and during, yeah...
But, yeah, it does matter a lot, you know,
who are the creators of this super
powerful pieces of software and systems.
Because if they themselves, you know,
are all made of the same cloth,
and they have group think.
They won't be able to cover
a lot of the different voices
that humans from all over the planet
and different backgrounds might have.
And, unfortunately,
you know, for the world,
tech is moving really quickly.
Policy cannot catch up.
Like the hardest thing, honestly,
that we face right now
is even if you're like a PhD in AI,
working for one of the foundation
model companies,
you can't keep up with the pace.
This is the single hardest thing.
So, imagine being, you know,
like a policy maker
or somebody who thinks
about that stuff all day long.
How do you keep up?
And, you know, the tech is improving in
the background.
This is really tricky.
Do you personally believe
the world will get there?
Where we've become like cats and dogs
in the background?
I don't want to believe in that world,
but is there a scenario
that this might happen?
Yes, there's a scenario
that this might happen.
But I think
I have the more optimistic take,
which is like, see,
since the Industrial Revolution,
humans have just
known to increase efficiency.
It's like singular, you know.
Now it makes sense that you worked
at Khosla Ventures.
Every year, productivity is going up
a couple of percent.
And even the internet, you know.
But the point being
is, like, we've always found a way
to do more, jobs have come and gone.
Typewriters used to be a thing,
no longer a thing.
The pace is accelerating, but the pace
has always been accelerating.
Maybe it's just an exponential curve,
and that's why we're feeling
that we're on the roller coaster
on the edge,
and that's why we're feeling it.
But I think I believe
in an abundant future,
where I believe actually,
like, we'll have more time to do
more leisureful activity.
The work day might go down
from 12 hours a day to 6 hours a day,
and that means we have more time
for art and music and entertainment
and you know, like,
spending time with, like, our loved ones.
That's my take on the decision.
That's like the abundance scenario.
-It's already happening today.
-It'll take way more, right?
-Yeah, yeah.
Before you were behind the steering wheel,
now you are reading, you know,
this is Twitch...
But this also happened 2,000 years ago,
say, the Greek society,
not everybody had to work
because they were doing so well.
Philosophy was a thing,
where people sat
and spent their lives philosophising
what they should believe in,
what they should not believe in.
Maybe the world goes there, no?
It will, yeah, there will be 10,000 teams
in the NBA, as I said.
We're all going to be
philosophers and poets.
Maybe we'll have a lot more sex,
and we can live like our own
version of Brian Johnson.
It will live for like 2,000 years.
Might very well happen.
I'm a bit more apprehensive
on the abundance situation,
because I think the abundance narrative--
There will always be certain people
with less resources.
And as long as you have less resources,
you will want more resources.
And so the abundance mindset,
I think, is a luxury of a few.
And there is no way
you can convince somebody
who grows up from a, I don't know,
poverty-stricken family in India.
-You can't convince somebody--
-Before you go ahead...
Yeah?
Does abundance hit proportionately
to the modes of capitalism
when there is abundance?
Absolutely. That's what history
has time and again told us.
If you read my favorite book,
Capital in the Twenty-First Century
by Thomas Piketty.
Every time there is growth
and development, inequality increases,
I don't think there's very many situations
where that's not the case.
But he makes a case
for that doughnut economics.
The marginal utility of money
beyond a point.
-Yes.
-That's what's done.
That's correct. And...
But despite that, I mean,
I think still think we have
a very far gap to fill before,
you know, the entirety of society
is above the point
where the marginal amount
of money means nothing.
And we see it in a little bit, right?
There are people who... I mean,
I think about this all the time.
But also think about this.
You were just saying fertility rates
are dropping such that
countries and two generations will have
one-tenth the number of people there.
So that changes everything too, right?
-Yeah.
-But let's talk about that.
What if we have the artificial womb?
And just have a baby through a surrogate.
I mean, I'm in my early 40s,
my wife is in her early 40s,
honestly, it's fucking amazing.
I think we need to make
having kids cool again.
-Yes.
-It's not as much about incentives.
But it's more about the narrative.
So if we're all to become
a lot more religious...
Hmm.
This perhaps would mean that you would
get married, you know, earlier.
This would probably mean that
for the religion to propagate,
you would have more kids earlier.
-Yeah.
-So one of the reasons, for example,
why in Latin America?
The fertility rates decline
is some of the steepest in the world.
It's because Catholicism
in many of these countries
is not as cool as it used to
be in the previous decades.
So would you bet on religion making
a comeback because it ought to?
-I think it is making a comeback.
-It's coming back.
Yeah. And part of the reason
is after, like, 15 years,
of being stuck on a small screen,
and after, you know, 20 years of going to,
Equinox, Barre-Bootcamp
or whatever, you know,
these institutions are for you,
depending on where you live.
You're trying to find other places
that have a meaning.
By the way, there might be an AI religion
that gets formed.
-Mm-hmm.
-Who knows.
That is gonna fulfill the emotional
needs that some humans might have.
But yeah, I do think religion
is making a comeback.
I think it's all about
a search for meaning.
That's where, like,
I go back on the abundant side.
Search for meaning
eventually ends up coming
with people and the byproducts of people.
Not from a kite's perspective
but whatever you end up doing.
And I think if...
going back to the poverty side,
like, I think we live in a place
where more people die of, like,
calorie surplus than negative.
I think that's now... that's why
Ozempic is doing so well.
Like, obesity is the number one killer
rather than...
I know that's not what
you were trying to say.
But I think, going back to that point,
we already live in an abundant future.
Where I don't think...
and the income disparity I agree with.
That is my number one fear.
But I don't know
what the solution there is.
Because UBI experiment has been tried.
It'll be interesting to see as that gap
goes bigger, what happens.
Yeah, I actually agree
with all of your points.
My only difference is
the search for meaning
in the Maslow Hierarchy of Needs,
is after a couple of other things.
-Sure.
-And it's not always just about...
It's about...
I think human's own perception of status.
-Sure.
-And where they are.
-Yeah.
-Where...
And, you know, obviously,
the food in America
is not as much of a problem.
And calories is not.
But yeah, that's kind of...
But I think we do agree.
-I think just separate.
-Yeah.
Okay, so we spoke about...
Huh?
What are you saying? Say it out loud.
Sorry, no,
every time a self-driving car passes by,
it's interfering with wireless.
That's okay, it'll sound natural.
Only in San Francisco.
Immediately reminded me of The Spy.
Waymos are going to detect
the Nikhil Kamath podcast.
-Yeah.
-What, what, what?
We were just talking about...
There's a Netflix series called The Spy.
It's about...
-Guys, you can keep rolling.
-About a spy in Iran?
-Syria.
-In Syria.
Damascus, yeah.
And the way he gets found out
is like he's talking on this frequency
with a particular frequency.
And they have these cars
that are just driving by.
And they catch him on that frequency.
So it really much reminded me
of the Waymos passing by
causing our frequency.
Imagine what must be happening
to spy technology in all this.
Oh, my God. Can't even.
-Right?
-It's crazy.
Everything is watched and heard in
perpetuity almost, I'm guessing.
Weapons technology with AI
is also you, know...
-It's a very investable asset.
-Yes.
And people are investing in it.
And some crazy things come out of it.
I think we should all assume that
we're living our lives in public now.
Mm-hmm.
And it's a little bit hard to say
that if you're somebody in your life,
40s or older.
But pretty much
every second or third building
now on the street
has some cameras installed.
Yeah.
Everyone has a phone with a camera.
You have a city with
self-driving cars or cameras.
With all these sensors,
you're living life in public.
And then anything you ever say
online, in theory, you know,
somebody can track it.
So imagine being somebody who is in
elementary school right now.
By the moment you started using computers,
if you created your account,
like on the iPad.
And now you're using ChatGPT
to help you with your homework.
And you can share your feelings.
Everything you know is getting tracked.
Parents are putting their newborn
on Instagram.
That's like, your digital identity
is already being published.
-Without your choice.
Now it's just the moment
you push a digital device
in any age's hand, it's gone.
What do you guys do for your kids?
Do you have plans
to put them on Instagram?
I haven't used Instagram
in four years, so...
I think one of the thoughts I have,
which is a hopefully positive thought,
is by the time my kid
is going to be a teenager,
the iPhone won't really exist in
its current shape and form.
So one of the things that I'm amazed by,
that can be a predecessor to this argument
I just made coming true,
is when you have really young kids
interacting with technology,
they do so with their hands or with voice.
And then you put them
in front of a laptop.
They see the keyboard and they freeze.
Like, "What am I supposed to do
with this thing?
Because so far,
I've been talking to my iPad
or my dad's, you know, like iPhone."
So I think if we were to project,
with new software,
and new AI-first hardware,
how we could interact with technology,
the small screen
might not be as addictive.
You know, we might actually
have it in our brain.
Mm-hmm. Do you think that could
become a business in itself?
No tech, no devices, disconnected.
-It is.
-Maybe a real estate project.
It is already a business.
So like people here around San Francisco,
they would go for like
three, four day silent retreat,
or we don't use technology
to find themselves,
to clean, you know, their souls.
It's already a business.
And it's going to become more
and more of a bigger trend.
I mean, for some time,
and first half of the previous decade,
Burning Man was that.
Now sadly, you know,
Starlink destroyed it.
That aspect of it.
But you know, this was
a part of what Burning Man
served to the tech notoriety of that era.
But India has Vipasana
which is the same thing, right?
-Yeah, sorry.
-No, sci-fi books,
I exclusively only read sci-fi.
It's a perfect picture in the future.
I think it's Snow Crash was the book
where they basically had these bars,
where you go in, and like everything
electronic is turned off.
And it felt to people
very unnatural and weird,
because they don't have everything
in their brain recording,
or intelligence,
an extra intelligence layer.
And that's the future people will do
to feel human again.
-Like, you know.
-So you're talking about--
Snow Crash is an old sci-fi book.
What are the books of today saying
if you're reading them?
There's... I mean,
I only read like older books.
Like, the newer books, obviously,
like Blake Crouch is excellent.
Like, I highly recommend reading
everything he writes.
But like, it's like reading
the older books is fun,
because it shows you
20 years in the future.
Now people are using like AI as the base,
and building on top of that.
But Three-body Problem
is like my absolute favorite.
What does the Three-body Problem
talk about?
It talks about just like
everything from interstellar space
to how like humanity travels
through different places.
I wouldn't do it any justice
like trying to explain the core
fundamental science things.
But I highly recommend reading it.
And if you don't want to read it,
just watch the Netflix series,
which is a poor adaptation.
But I know people like video
more than reading nowadays.
It's unbelievably good.
It touches a lot of pieces on
society, culture, governance,
interest, like,
you know, interstellar space
to like even human emotions.
It's like very, very, very well done.
You brought up
an interesting point, you know,
like people having easier time watching
video, instead of reading.
Because now, we're constantly distracted
and the push notifications
of technology are so addictive.
And we want to get our dopamine hit.
So, like, going back to what we were
discussing before.
You know, there are
these offline retreats,
but there are also
some applications out there,
like Clearspace and Opal and others,
that help you have
a digital detox on your phone.
-They're all growing.
-And all of them are growing.
So this is, like, speaking--
It's like evidence that consumers
are voting with their dollars
to block the most addictive
products out there,
most often social media products.
And there is even a new class
of, like, consumer hardware startups
that are creating versions of dumb phones
with some core utilities.
Because one would argue if you cannot
call Uber or Waymo, that's a problem.
If you cannot, you know,
text your loved one, that's a problem.
But do you really need to have
all the different messaging apps
or social media apps
on your phone? Probably not.
But for the sake of
playing devil's advocate,
because as much as I love your
guys' argument, I want to buy that.
On the other hand,
I was looking at the stat
for how much YouTube
is watched in the world.
And if you do the numbers,
the final result I got was
2% of all human waking hours
is on YouTube.
-Yeah.
-That's an insane amount.
And look, there's some assumptions,
so maybe 1%.
So, I mean, that's rising too.
So I think-- I still worry about it.
Because sure, some people are detoxing.
But it's, like, a vice is a vice.
I mean, you can stop
some people from gambling,
but there's a reason the laws prohibit it.
It's because people are drawn to vices.
I was in India for two weeks. And I mean,
I've seen the rise of Jio
and cheap data everywhere.
And I come once a year for two weeks.
And it's crazy.
It's like, you know, the security guy
at 3 a.m. in the morning
is watching like a YouTube video,
which is like, you know?
And it's probably terrible for his eyes.
And like, I didn't see anybody.
Like, yeah, it's like everywhere.
Because it's so cheap.
Data is proliferated.
So I mean, I don't...
I think the genie is out.
I think it's kind of one of those like,
we live very privileged lives
being in the Bay Area.
We can be like,
"Oh, we need to do digital detox."
And people are like still
making money and all of those things.
You realise we're making
a YouTube video right now?
I know.
This is YouTube education section.
-Right.
-So it's a good part of YouTube.
It's like having
salmon and broccoli, great.
It's not like McDonald's.
What do you think happens to matchmaking?
Dating apps.
-What happens to dating apps?
-Yeah.
We just met one yesterday.
That's why I'm asking.
-Which one?
-Sitch.
Oh, Nandini.
They will evolve.
-Into?
-Because...
Probably it will be a continuation
of some of this, you know,
AI products
that know everything about you.
And they know everything
about a lot of other people
that might be a good fit for you.
And they could be able
to make curated intros
and could be able to handle
the beginning of a conversation
so that you get to the actual,
you know, like date.
Because today's AI apps... is the worst.
They're more like entertainment products
than actual dating apps.
Yeah. And you get the dopamine
from matching, not from dating.
Something like 30% of people
who are in the swipe left on right.
-They've never been on a date.
-Yeah.
And then these products were built
for a different generation
where people were not as gender fluid.
And for example, you know, if I'm like
somebody who is on the younger side
and is bi, just having
like a straight profile on Tinder,
it doesn't serve me as well.
And then the other thing
that's going on, unfortunately,
is there's a lot of data discrimination
that's happening on the dating apps.
So something like 8 to 10% of the guys
get 80% of the dates.
This is really bad news for humanity.
And this speaks to a need
that's in the background.
Like a demand for something new.
For example, if you're a guy
and you're not getting any dates
on any of the popular online dating apps,
the best thing you can do
is delete it from your phone.
Sign up with a new location.
Ideally, you input a location
next to an airport.
Because over there, there are a lot
of people coming in and out.
And the algorithm gets rerouted,
you know, again.
So, like, I think the future
of online dating...
is going to be part
of what people are using
like ChatGPT, to do their homework.
Like, anyone who's young now,
and they're just addicted
to that behaviour,
they would expect a similar kind
of experience for other parts of life.
I think... I believe,
like, we'll all have digital twins.
Like, it just makes sense.
Like, you know, we already do in ChatGPT
and the memory layer.
We're inputting so much
of our information in there.
And so, I think dating just evolves
very similarly.
Where, you know, why swipe left or right?
Where if your digital twin is able
to just figure out from this ocean
about the digital twins,
who's the best match for you,
they do the early conversations.
And then you just get to meet them.
And you just trust the algorithm
to do the curation.
Today in Tinder, you're just filling out
a profile that has stale data.
But imagine if you could take
your deepest darkest,
like, all the things
that you put in ChatGPT today,
to do the matching for you,
it would be far more effective
because it does all the matching.
And it's like, okay,
then you have a slider.
It's like, how different do you want them?
OK, if you have three different dates,
it's like, you know, one's, like,
truly a magic eight ball.
One's, like, ideally matched
to who you are.
But is it an industry
that you would bet on?
You would want to allocate money
behind it?
There's one of the dating apps
in our mentalist portfolio.
It's like, Raya, which is,
was a good investment.
But generally, dating apps today are...
You'd to have something unique for it
to be a good bet.
I think, you know,
Niko probably knows more of it.
But you're like, both are more
consumer investors than I am.
I mean, with consumer, it's just really
tough to bet on these things,
unless you see
some element of traction already.
Like, you need to know that it works,
but correct me.
And Facebook was a dating product
in the early days.
So would you invest
in the next Facebook
that's going to look
very different?
-Yes, you would.
-Yeah.
But what is the single
best dating product today?
If you are a very successful person,
probably Instagram.
Because over there, you know,
you can slide into other famous people,
beautiful people's DMs,
and they would reply back at you.
But over time, you know,
these things will evolve.
And then I think there's something
to be said about offline experiences
around dating, becoming a lot more...
desirable for people.
Like, in a world where, like, you know,
the online experiences are very addictive,
and we have them in abundance.
What becomes scarce?
They have very awesome, cool,
offline experiences.
So anyone who has the means,
who would want to be part of that?
So somebody is building a dating app.
They should solve
not just for meeting someone,
but also for the date.
Absolutely.
Yeah. So I work with one team called 222,
they're in New York.
How do you spell that?
222.place is the website.
And what those folks are doing
is something very simple.
You're a newcomer to New York City
or to L.A. or San Francisco.
You want to meet others.
You can go and do
a cooking class together.
Or you can go and have, like, dinner.
You and two other friends of yours
and seven strangers.
And then alongside 97 other people,
you can go to a bar.
And people pay their subscribers
to do that.
And it's growing really, really quickly.
So the future of dating apps
will be more offline than online.
Yeah, and less swiping.
I think that paradigm
has come to run its course.
Okay, so we've established humans
could become like cats and dogs.
Religion will do well.
Maybe a new AI religion.
Fertility rates will drop
and that rate might exaggerate.
We also said matchmaking will change.
Digital twin, offline.
Instagram is where a lot of people
date today.
We said socialism and capitalism
will move closer to centre.
I don't know. That one...
I plead the fifth.
I think more capitalism.
You know, I've visited South Korea
this past Christmas.
-Yeah.
-And I went to, like,
a viewpoint where you can see
the closest town of North Korea
in the military zone.
And it's striking to see the difference.
It was one of these clear days
because normally there's a lot
of pollution that you cannot see.
So I could see the streets of that town.
And in the 30 minutes
I was at that coffee shop,
I didn't see a single car.
And I was like shocked.
Because I was like, whoa, you know.
We're just, like, two or three miles away.
And here there is stuff happening.
And over there, you know,
poor people who happen to be born there,
Not because of their own volition,
and they're stuck in the ice ages
instead of economic, you know, growth.
So, like, there are certain places where
you can compare, contrast, you know,
the different systems.
Sadly still.
We also said, off-the-grid businesses
will do well.
Digital detox with personal kind of stuff.
Video over reading will continue to grow.
Video will continue to get shorter.
-Yeah.
-You want to a dopamine spike sooner.
I mean, capitalism, I think, will always
reward whatever hacks your brain
to give you reward immediately.
And dopamine.
And that's why there is shift
to a shorter video.
It's an easier hack for the brain.
What if, though, we have, like,
brain implants?
And, you know, there are going to be ways
to hug people's brains.
Or a new form of digital drugs
will be invented, you know.
Like Neuralink?
Yeah, Neuralink, it's one of the companies
that are building
the brain implants, right?
Like, historically, you know,
we've liked images more than text.
We've liked video more than images.
We've liked short video more than,
like, long-form video.
But I'm saying, if most people,
you know, many people have brain implants,
there will be new things they'd like.
-And...
-Would do you get one?
If somebody were to tell you,
"Here, Niko, there's a brain implant,
which will increase your IQ by 40%."
I'm sure there could be a reason
for me to do it.
You know, by that time, I might have
some cognitive decline, right?
And I won't like that.
No. Very, like, optional.
Like, you're okay.
And somebody offers it to you.
And see, if you had said to me
a few years ago,
"You could speak
all of the world's languages
with a brain implant,"
I will be like, "Sign me up."
Now, unfortunately or fortunately,
some of these, you know, like,
Ray-Ban smart glasses, you know,
are getting there.
So this might not be the use case
that gets me.
But, you know, if you can have, like,
cognitive superpowers, why not?
Or if I could have a party
in my head at all times,
or there's a monologue going on
in my head, you know, at all times.
Like, thinking too many things,
if that, you know,
implant can help me pacify it, great.
What do you think happens to urbanisation?
Do we all still want to be
-in densely populated cities?
-I think so.
-Why?
-Because this has been the case,
you know,
since the very beginning of humanity.
Like, we tend to be more and more dense,
you know, so it is great for...
all sorts of animals,
it's great for the planet.
If that were true,
wouldn't we be one block of people
in every country
or one block of densely populated people?
Why do we have states?
Why do different states
have different cities?
Because the world has been around
for long enough.
But in many countries now, which,
you know, countries was a new idea
from the 19th century.
In many countries, you see certain cities
where you have like, you know,
20, 30, 40, 50% of the population,
you know.
But not 100.
Not 100%. No, unless it's a very
small one, like Singapore, right?
-Yeah.
But think of a country like the U.S.
If that was the prevailing trend,
there would be one block,
either on the West Coast or East Coast.
Where everybody would live.
I think natural resources matter, energy.
-There's a lot of other factors also.
-Climate change.
Climate change, language matters.
Terrain matters.
-The economy, yeah.
-The economy matters.
It just doesn't... People choose
to leave and go somewhere else.
I don't think it's that simple.
Would you bet on urbanisation
to continue with Niko as well?
100%. Yeah.
I also think... I think it'll continue.
But then as the income disparity grows,
the real estate grows... Sorry.
As we get more and more things
in the digital world,
like real estate
actually becomes far more expensive.
Why?
Because that's the only asset
people can hold on.
-It's a real blockchain land.
-Yeah.
-So it's a supply constraint asset.
-It's a supply constraint asset.
But if there are one-tenth
the number of people
and there's infinite land in the world...
I don't think
there'll be one-tenth number of people.
The cycle of decline, does it ever go up?
We don't know, right?
I think it does.
But it just happened.
Declines and civilizational population
have happened in the past for mostly war.
-Yeah.
-And other other sorts of reasons, famine.
-Disease.
-But this time, it's not that.
This time, it's not that.
But I think, that part,
humans generally fix themselves.
So I'm optimistic.
There's going back
to the digital detox side, right?
But what if, you know, we all live,
you know, in like 120 years, right?
Which is believable for folks
who are now, you know, like,
getting born or they're like 10,
15 years old.
So if that happens, the population decline
is not going to be as quick as, you know,
we might think it is.
And, you know, normally,
for the population to grow,
it depends really
on the number of fertile women.
And how many years they have
that they're fertile.
So, that's a constraint that nature
or God, you know, gave to us.
So what if, you know, you could, like,
3x the number of fertile years
that we have today
or we could have artificial wombs.
But we'll all want to live longer.
I think most people,
if they believe in a better future
for themselves,
they want to live longer.
Most people would say yes.
And this believing
in a better future tomorrow
is a very recent phenomenon.
Before the Industrial Revolution,
if you asked anybody, "How do you think
you will be five years from now?"
Most people thought
they would be worse off.
This is new that we have seen growth
for as long as we have
in some form or another.
It is new, yeah.
So, longevity and wellness,
as a business, good place to be?
Great place to be.
In any country...
This is the first time
you said "Great" this evening.
-Thank you.
-Yeah.
I'll ask my co-pilot right now.
What do you think?
I think long, longer term,
great places to be, to invest in.
I think biotech is taking
a lot of interesting strides
in terms of drug discovery.
So, how do we solve
a bunch of the diseases
that cause early death?
I think it is really important.
There is a lot of cool work
going on there.
Longevity, I think it is a slower burn.
So, you know, I am optimistic,
but on a slightly longer time horizon.
Hence the name, right?
I guess so. I guess so.
And then, I am very optimistic
about biotech overall.
I think the artificial womb thing
is interesting for sure.
But I think it does calls into...
it calls into question
some concerns around,
you know, how many kids will one person
be able to have?
Because then it becomes a, you know,
purchasable asset.
Can you have a thousand kids,
if you can just artificial womb them?
Maybe some people might want to do that.
Well, religion has hope for that.
It becomes an economic, you know,
according to most religions
to have many kids.
At the extreme ends, though,
I think that we can see some
interesting things happen there.
We need robots to help raise them too.
That too. That too.
This will be probably more expensive.
Or you would need a lot more space.
But that's real estate
is becoming more expensive.
That's a real limitation.
Do you think real estate will continue
to become more expensive?
Do you believe in that finite supply?
One of the issues that we have
in the western world
is that the productivity
and the construction industry
has been stagnating,
or certain decades going down.
So unless we fix that,
unfortunately, you know, in most places,
real estate will continue to become
more expensive.
So we were doing this exercise.
At the end of the day,
we're all capital allocators.
Right? All four of us,
in one way or another.
Maybe on the venture side,
the private equity side, whatever.
So we were trying to arrive
at what statements
hold the most value for us from a...
Rate of change is increasing.
World is changing.
Ten years from now,
which industry
would have grown the fastest?
I'm going to share the statements
one by one, and maybe we can all opine.
Disagree, agree, rate them.
The first one I'll say is Indian families
with rising income, reducing family size,
will invest in premium education,
outcome-focused education
will take preference.
What do you guys think?
Great.
In only this particular...
I think, in general, that will happen.
Yeah, I'm just saying Indian
because we're sitting in India
doing this exercise.
Niko, do you think everybody
will spend more on education?
No.
But certain cultures
like in India or in South Korea
or where I come from in Greece,
they absolutely do.
Because they see this as a viable path
to improving their chances
if their offspring is doing well.
In the U.S.,
the average person does not care
about spending money
on their kids' education.
Like, kid is bad at math,
the teacher is bad.
That's changing.
Why is that culturally?
It's a immigrant nation and everybody
has become successful in the recent past.
So, didn't they distinguish
the successful from the unsuccessful,
also through the lens of education?
Who is they?
-Like, all of America?
-The American people.
You know, you forget
when you made it to the top,
often, you forget.
And for a lot of folks,
this is not priority number one.
If you're like an immigrant yourself,
or you're somebody affluent,
of course, do care a lot about it.
-Yeah.
-Every society
in the past that has achieved
pinnacle status
has always shifted to arts and culture
as their way to spend time,
whether it's sports or something else.
And in America, it's a very
sports-oriented culture more than it is
an education-oriented culture,
like you said,
I don't know too many, you know.
Can I ask you guys to give it a rating?
One to ten.
-This one.
-Yeah.
The education one?
Eight or nine.
Okay.
-Same?
-I'm like a ten.
You come from a country
that's on the up and up?
Yeah.
Okay. Nikunj?
Outcome-focused education, yeah.
-It'll be the... it is the future.
-Number?
Nine.
Okay.
Secondary markets for private companies
will become a big thing.
Ten.
Again, these are moments
in time, right?
Because there are moments when regulators
and incentives are aligning
for public markets to be open
and to welcome companies
at a much earlier stage.
There are other moments
that this is not the case.
So, at the moment, you know,
we're living during a time
where a lot of the value is captured
by private investors on the way up.
Like, you now see quite a few companies
that are worth $100 billion plus.
Whereas back in the day, you know,
this was not the case.
Like when Facebook went public
and was valued,
and they won over $100 billion.
I think they were the first ones ever,
you know, to do that in 2012.
And could you also argue that, tomorrow,
a lot more really large companies
will want to avoid a circumvent
taking retail money
because they'll have to be over-regulated
if they do?
If indeed, you know, they have to be
over-regulated and they have a choice
because they can get funding
from other places,
yeah, they might avoid.
But if we bring down
the regulatory constraints
or capital from other sources
becomes more scarce,
this could be an option.
For me, somebody who lives in the U.S.,
it's actually sad
that the retail investor,
the pension funds, the low fees, ETFs,
cannot have access to some of this wealth,
you know, sooner or rather than later.
It's sad, 100%. But I don't think
it's changing anytime soon, right?
At the moment, it looks like it's not
going to change anytime soon, yeah.
Yeah, it's like eight or nine.
There's this access.
I think if you think about, like,
imbalance in the future or disparity,
like, access becomes the primary thing
that only a few people have,
and that's the sad aspect.
And access will be gatekept.
Yeah, access will be gatekept.
And I think that's the sad aspect,
but do I see it changing anytime soon?
No. Incentives are just not aligned.
Do you guys
want to rate the statement? Niko?
Secondary markets, secondary markets,
marketplaces.
They're gonna be strong forever.
For the next 10 years.
Yeah, I think so. Five. Yeah.
-Five?
-Yeah.
-Deedy.
-I'd say ten.
-Ten?
-I don't see it changing.
-Nikunj?
-Let's split the middle. Take seven.
I think I don't...
I think it'll change.
I think it'll change in the...
start of next decade.
The world will be older and sicker.
Wellness, hospitalisation, longevity,
great sectors to be in.
I think they're two different statements,
in my opinion.
[Nikhil] Explain.
I don't think you...
I don't believe the world
will be older and sicker.
Why not?
I mean, we're constantly improve--
First, I believe, as Deedy mentioned,
biotech is the application area
where I do believe us discovering
new things will be the most...
Like, literally, one sector
where we'll discover the most things
where AI will be useful, it's biotech.
And I think that will help transform
most of the common diseases, why we die.
Ozempic is already doing it with
obesity, which is a huge factor.
So, I do think we'll live longer,
and, like, healthier.
But I do think
that will take investments...
Longer and...
That is agreed. World will be older.
If you live longer, world will be older.
-Yeah, so that's why I said older--
-Sicker?
No, and not sicker. Yeah.
And then, average, like, if we think about
median happiness years...
Let's put it, like,
in a philosophical way.
No, I'm more thinking how many people
are sick at one point of time,
'cause money can be made
by treating them.
-You wanna answer that?
-Go for it. Yeah.
I was gonna be pretty strong on this one.
I mean, just, again, this is a side-effect
of birth rate decline.
So, it's birth rates decline,
the demographic imbalance will switch
to having more older people.
I think, yeah, Nikunj, you're right.
I mean, you have to debate the baseline
of what "sicker" means, but...
Yes. Yeah.
That's what I was thinking, too.
Generally, if you're talking about
the world being sicker
because there are more older people,
and older people are generally sicker,
yeah, I mean, that is factual.
Also, we've just come out of COVID.
After many, many decades,
we had something like that.
Maybe there'll be more.
Perhaps, but even without that,
I would say the world is...
Older people get sicker.
People will be older,
therefore, people will be sicker.
And then longevity, wellness,
and all of that... very important.
Also, because of how connected we are
right now,
when something transmissible
comes about next,
we'd all get it much faster
than we did historically.
-That's why I say "sicker".
-Oh, yeah.
I was sitting with somebody
from Moderna last week,
and they were saying
we got really close with bird flu,
but the world has gotten to a point,
where if I have something
which is moderately infectious,
the odds of the last person in the world
not catching it are low today.
But I think we'll be able to come up
with an antidote faster,
and distribute it faster also.
I think that's the corollary
that I don't think we get, like...
COVID would have been
much worse without mRNA.
A lot of these things that didn't exist,
like, 10, 15 years ago.
And I think that pace
is only going to accelerate.
So that's what I was trying to understand.
I think the acceleration
of us making things better.
Let me put it more specifically,
I think the ambiguity goes away.
In 2035,
I'm reviewing the portfolio
that is being invested in today.
Will the business of treating sick people
have done well by then?
I think we're rating that.
I mean, in the US, it's already, what,
19% of US GDP goes in healthcare.
That number will go up?
Hundred percent!
-Yeah, that.
-Yeah.
The number will go up.
Does it mean it's a good business?
Yes, exactly.
Because, like,
if you are in healthcare services or...
you run hospital stuff,
most of them are not great businesses.
However, you know, if you find ways
to bend the cost curve...
Oh, my God, amazing.
All the trends are on your side.
-Yeah.
-[Nikhil] Yeah.
I suspect there are better businesses
outside of the US,
because the US has a problem
which is very unique to itself.
Right. That's right.
Like, the multiples of hospital companies
in India
are like, a hundred times, profit.
Especially if you've been able
to build a brand around it.
Would you like to rate this, Niko?
Older, sicker world.
I think older, yes.
Sicker... It's a definition thing,
but, like, no.
Is this market going to become
much bigger between now and 2035?
Yes. It's like a nine, you know.
Nine.
-Nikunj?
-Yeah. Eight.
Senior living.
This is something we invested in,
funnily enough.
Me and Hemant did this deal together.
We did a couple in senior living.
Were you a part of that?
I'm aware of it,
but I was not part of it, no.
-Yeah.
-Thoughts?
The world will be older...
senior living, affluent senior living.
Well, some of the fastest growing cities
in the US are the villages in Florida.
So, if there's something to be said,
you know,
about that model expanding
to other countries...
I think, you know, this one has,
like, very awesome long-term prospects.
And especially in the developing world,
as people become...
more affluent,
their kids are fewer,
they don't live with them,
but they move for economic opportunity
in other parts of the country,
or other parts of the world,
you need, as you age,
to be close to other elderly people,
and/or individuals
who are going to be able to help you.
This particular deal that we did together
is a company called Primus.
And the data he was showing us is,
if a 70-year-old man or woman
is at his facility,
which is a very affluent, like,
high-end senior living facility,
the quality of life and...
the longevity of their life
goes up by a significant premium
because they have community.
That's right.
And he showed me
this really crazy research.
Like, when my dad was sick,
I got him a nurse.
So then, he didn't have to do anything.
He didn't have to move.
Somebody was doing everything for him.
That's the worst thing you can do
for your parent.
It's very counter-intuitive.
But, I think, just that community...
having to play with someone,
having some competition being organised,
playing memory games, walking,
all of that,
with like-aged people changes everything.
Absolutely, yes.
So, if you read about Blue Zones,
which are, like,
the different parts of the world
where they have the highest percentage
of people who are 100 years old-plus,
the... shared trait
that they all have to demonstrate
is community.
So, like in Okinawa in Japan
and Ikaria in Greece,
and, like, you know, other parts...
You're somebody, you know,
who's 100 years old,
your kids might be dead or incapacitated,
but because, every day, you know,
in your village, you're socialising,
and you feel like
you have responsibilities,
this is what keeps you going.
We rate this highly in India
even though there is such a big
societal stigma about senior living.
I think the misconception one has
is at a certain point, with your parent,
you're almost being selfish
by keeping them at home
versus allowing them to
make more choices of their own.
-Right.
-Yeah.
It's a hard thing, especially in India,
to overcome.
I don't know how it's in Greece.
Same.
But, because in Greece, again, you know...
the standard of living went up,
and then the cost of living,
cost of labour also went up,
what saved a lot of families
was, like, Eastern European labour talent
that visited the country
and stayed there as illegal immigrants,
and then got legalised.
But, in the beginning, you know,
if you had your kid,
your elderly parents sent to,
like, a senior living facility,
everyone would look down on you.
So, the preferred choice was to have
somebody from Georgia or Romania,
you know, do the work for you.
But then, you realised all the stuff
that you mentioned,
you know, that your dad or mom
wouldn't interact with anyone else.
The cognitive decline would be faster.
So, now, you know,
after 30 years of doing what I said,
some of the much better
senior living businesses
are looked at more nicely...
or favourably.
You guys want to comment on senior living?
Would you send your parents?
It's a tough one.
I would...
There is some bias against it,
as you said,
but, you know, maybe that
decision will change over time.
I think it depends on
what they want to do as well.
I do think, in my particular case,
I'm lucky
that they have a good community already
at home.
So, that does solve
a bunch of the problems,
but, you know, who knows how this goes.
But, generally, on your question...
you know, in the US, very much.
In the rest of the world, slightly less.
Just because
there's different dynamics,
social, intercultural dynamics
in different parts of the world.
There is also taboo,
things like that.
So I'm not as sure.
But, in America, yeah.
-Nikunj?
-Yeah, I think...
It's not a question
of me sending our parents,
like, my parents, luckily...
My parents and my grandparents
live together.
And I think that's nice, like,
from a community standpoint.
And that's very rare,
not many people have that.
Yeah, we're very lucky that...
everybody likes each other.
But...
it's not a question
of me sending my parents or not.
It's a question of, like...
-Them choosing to go.
-...them choosing what to do.
At the end of the day, we all...
We're three brothers
who all live in separate houses.
They live in their own house.
And what they-- what do they want to do?
I think it makes sense, like, I...
I think, both, from a community
standpoint, but from a...
as labour gets more expensive, like,
economies of scale standpoint as well,
it just makes sense
for more people at the same stage in life
to live together.
Would you guys like to rate the statement?
Niko?
Senior living?
I'm like a nine.
Eight.
Yeah. Nine.
Unless there are infectious diseases,
like COVID, you know...
Yeah. I get that.
...senior living facilities
are going to do really well.
Yeah. Some of these, like,
one of them-- With Primus,
their plan is to have golf carts,
and you drive around inside
the community. It's by a lake.
It's not like living
in polluted Bombay or...
-It's not.
-It makes a huge difference.
Like, just the air quality alone
changes so much.
It's air quality
that's one of the biggest killers.
-Yeah.
-In, like...
in the world.
And one of the reason why
people are having, like, liver failures
is because of the air pollution,
you know, where they live.
Yeah. That's one of
the biggest risk factors for--
like, health risk factors for life
in the world.
So, any technology
that's helping alleviate air pollution,
or making, you know, gasoline cars,
and other such things, you know,
that's prevalent will do really well.
The next one is content.
The theory we were discussing is...
with search being disrupted
in the manner that it is,
and people, let's assume,
use Google a lot lesser,
or any kind of search platform
that is throwing up ads...
And if anyone wants to build a brand,
social media might exist in some form,
but Google Ads and the likes of that
will not work.
So, to be able to build a brand,
you have to...
be able to hold attention,
one way or another,
through some form of content.
And video is working right now. So...
The alpha between a brand that does well
and a brand that doesn't do well,
content is going to be
the biggest differentiator.
Thoughts?
-That's the premise?
-[Nikhil] Yeah.
I very much agree with that.
And, like, for every generation,
if you know how to speak,
whatever the medium
where content gets viewed as fluently,
you can do really well.
So, for example,
there is, you know, that...
Spanish olive oil... Graza...
I forget what it is,
you know, that became, like...
a 70 million dollar-plus business
in a couple of years,
just because they know
how to appeal to young people.
Or, like, are you, today, Haikyuu?
Do you know how to speak X?
You'll do well.
Are you a young consumer founder
who knows how to speak TikTok?
You will do well.
Yeah.
And, you know, in a few years,
it will be something else.
I don't know what that will be,
but whoever knows
how to play that game well,
this is golden.
Attention is all you need.
-[Nikunj chuckles]
-I think Deedy is doing well at that.
-[Niko] Absolutely.
-[laughter]
You're doing pretty well yourself.
What are you going to pivot into
with all this attention that you have?
I don't do content for, you know,
any practical purpose,
which is why I never went
into things like videos...
It's like saying I don't make money
of any practical purpose.
No, no, it's not the same.
It's like, I, you know...
Everyone's presumably got an education
with some goal of having some job.
There's other reasons to do it,
but having something...
But I genuinely don't think
I ever did anything online
to get an audience or to have money
or to have anything.
Otherwise, I mean,
what I would tell people is, like,
"Yeah, if you want to do content
just for that purpose,
then you would--
there's always easier ways to do it.
You do humour, you do hot topics,
you do very debatable,
questionable things."
And, I mean, some would argue
I have done some of that,
but not much.
I think that kind of content
gives you a different kind of attention.
The kind of content
you're creating gives you...
trust.
-Relevancy.
-Relevance.
In a way, trust.
When I first started,
one of my first kinds of things
I would post about is just immigration.
And the only reason I would do it
is because I found myself
telling all my friends
the same thing over and over again.
So, I'm like, "Let me just write it down,
and then you can go read that."
And so, I don't see it as...
For me, at least,
it was never meant to be a business.
But, to the statement, I mean...
Niko definitely knows about this trend,
but there's so many of these
like 16, 17, 18-year-old kids
who, out of nowhere,
they come up with an app.
But I think they're been brilliant.
I was doing a call with Sam Altman,
and he told me the same thing.
I was like,
"What should young people do?"
He said most of them look like
they want to be influencers,
but I think
they have the best idea ever.
Being influencers was the best idea ever?
By creating content, because you're...
capturing attention.
And if the attention can age...
I don't mean tenure
in the sense of, it becomes old,
but as you grow older,
if your viewers grow with you
in age as well...
you keep their attention
for a long time...
Like, look at Taylor Swift.
It's insane, right?
-Amazing.
-Yeah.
She could soon be the richest person
in the world, I wouldn't be surprised.
But then, what I was going to say
on the app one was,
it's not even them
trying to be influencers.
It's them actually figuring out
how to do their own marketing strategy
at an almost nothing cost, right?
What they will do is,
they'll pay off people to...
they'll pay off other people
to make Discord... sorry, on Discord
to make TikTok videos,
and then have, like,
some commission-based agreement.
And then these apps are making millions of
millions of dollars of money, of revenue,
and they're sitting at home,
in their parents' garage,
going like, "OK, well, I've made
all this money and I've spent nothing."
So, I think
it's not them being influencers.
It's them figuring out
how to tap into the ecosystem
to get distribution
for the thing that they've built.
Because what they identify,
at least, the examples
I'm talking about...
What they've identified is,
all of these apps look the same,
the only thing that matters is
distribution.
So, let me go to the app store,
figure out all the apps
that are basically commodity,
make my own,
and then figure out distribution.
That's my...
-Storytelling matters, right?
-Storytelling matters.
We're all suckers for amazing stories.
So, whoever knows how to tell a story
in a very compelling way,
and get a lot of attention for it
because they speak the language
of wherever stories gets heard
at that moment in time,
this is super powerful.
[Nikunj] I'll take the other side.
I think, in the last three years,
there's been almost too much attention
on attention.
While I agree content
helps you grab attention,
and attention spans are declining,
I think there's too much empty calories.
I mean, same audience...
I think we need to look more
from the lens of...
Let's say,
Nikunj tomorrow is starting a...
chocolate brand,
or a T-shirt brand, or any kind...
Most of an economy is consumption,
right?
60–70% of money spent in the US
is on QSR response.
Say you start a fast-food restaurant
in America.
How do you find your audience,
if not for content?
So, my push there is,
like, there's two legs to a stool.
There's too much attention on attention,
just like, can you get people in the door?
But what is your way?
Let's say, Nikunj tomorrow starts selling
some version of McDonald's.
The best way is to have the best product.
Even then, how are you discovered?
Like how, traditionally,
everything has been discovered,
which is word of mouth.
I think there is still power in that.
Like, you know...
I'll give you a good example.
Swati is a restaurant in Ahmedabad
and Bombay as well.
[Nikhil] Swati Snacks. Yeah.
Same food. I go there every year and eat.
It's always full.
And they've spent $0 on marketing,
forever.
Even in today's day and age
where there's a million restaurants,
that restaurant is full,
every day, by 5.30 pm or 9 pm.
And because the product
is still phenomenal.
But what are the odds of that?
For every Swati that succeeded...
I don't think-- That's why I said
there's two legs to a stool.
I think there's far too much attention
on attention,
especially in today's economy.
Everybody wants
a Twitter-viral launch video.
But the product fucking sucks.
And I don't think that lasts.
Like, you look at the churn numbers,
right?
Yeah, the product has to be good,
regardless.
No, but that has changed.
Nowadays, there's so much attention
on attention
that people are discounting
building a good product.
Where, kind of what Deedy said,
in a white-labelled world,
where you just have to build an
OK product, and just distribution matters,
I think that will peter out
in the long run.
Won't the quality of...
With increased productivity
by virtue of AI,
won't the quality of a product
get democratised, to a large extent?
I don't know.
I think it's the 10% problem.
The last mile problem
will forever be there.
This is why Jiro still builds
the same sushi, 80 years later,
and, like, you know, continues to do it.
I think-- I do believe...
This is why I'm taking the opposite side.
I think there's too much attention
on attention.
And do you think
you need eyeballs, right?
If nobody comes to the restaurant,
then what's the point
of building a restaurant?
But I think the product
needs to be phenomenal,
in this AI age,
otherwise, it's just slop.
And that's what happens, you know,
when one TikTok trend goes viral...
20 people copy it,
and 20 people copy the same app.
There is no differentiation.
And then, you build little bit of value.
But the only compounding value
is retention.
Can you build a retentive product
where people come back?
And that only comes with quality.
Think of some products that come to mind
that have done really well
at mass scale today.
What do you buy often that you think
is a spectacular product
from a differentiation lens?
-Digital, physical, like?
-Apple?
-iPhones, yeah.
-[Nikhil] Yeah.
Is that because of the product
or is that because of...
It's compounding advantages, right?
Like it's... There's no attention.
What does Apple spend money on?
-Now, they spend money on... ads.
-Comparatively,
compared to their gross margin profile,
their marketing spend is very low.
Yeah, but I'm not
disagreeing with you at all.
Yeah, and this is obviously--
I think this is kind of
obviously true that you can...
you need retention and you need...
-But that's changing, though.
Last year, more than ever,
I have felt this changing.
Where, that you think
people don't focus on...
Yeah, like they look at
Mr Beast Feastables.
The only reason it sells is because...
attention.
The product... I've had it.
It's horrible. Horrible for the kids.
-It's horrible for like--
-Why did you try it?
-Why?
-Because I was just curious.
-Yeah.
-But, again,
it's two legs to the same stool.
I'm just saying there's far too much
attention on one end.
Yeah. I think I'm focusing more
on discoverability.
Yeah.
'Cause you get to that point and then
comes the question of retention.
Yeah. I mean, you need attention
because now, in a sea of the same,
how do you differentiate yourself?
Content will always be the differentiator,
one way or the other.
But I, I think
it's gonna be a revolving door
if you don't focus enough on the product.
The pendulum is swung on the other side
is what I'm trying to argue,
where I think it can go
back to, like, we need both.
Can't have one or the other.
I'm looking at the last five-year bucket
as the bucket of performance marketing,
where you gave Google money
to show your product in different places
-and you paid for the number of clicks.
-Sure. Yeah.
And I'm looking at
what is the next transition from that.
Yeah, I mean, discoverability, especially
like consumers, it's all TikTok.
Because it's the only free channel left,
where if you build something that grabs
attention, you get a lot of attention.
Everything else has become paid to play.
-It's known.
-Should we-- Yeah.
Should we rate this?
Content. Importance of content
in building a business. Niko?
For anything that's, like, you know,
consumer-facing or prosumer facing,
discoverability,
it's like a, it's a 10.
-Deedy?
-Yeah.
Without that caveat, and I would say,
like eight or nine, fairly important.
Not the only thing.
-[Nikhil] Nikunj?
-Say seven.
Important, but not the only thing
that's needed.
Do you guys see a world where
David is winning against Goliath?
People don't want to buy
from corporations,
but they want to buy
from individual brands?
Yeah. We have to believe that,
we're in the business of backing Davids.
Yeah.
I think this is happening more and more
with offline experiences.
Where you wanna-- Like in the universe
of, like, tourists, right?
You want to have
the bespoke local artisanal guide,
or, like, the hotel
that has its own story,
or go to the restaurant
that's mom and pop, you know?
Do you feel like this happened
because the last 10, 20 years,
we bought products behind a corporation
'cause trust was so deficit in society
that we didn't know what went into it.
Today, we care less about trust,
and we are buying artisanal, handmade,
we are buying into individuality again
and is that a trend that's here to stay?
I do like how you framed it,
and it depends on the society
that you live in
and your economic participant.
I would also add that,
very often, you don't want to be
buying the same brands
that your parents were buying.
It might be the case for detergent,
but to go to the same,
you know, the hotel chain that they went,
it's not as cool for you.
So, like, every generation
has its own cool...
brands, experiences
that they resonate with.
And a lot of the large corporations,
at least in the West, have had like...
they've lost a lot of their brand equity
with the youth.
I mean, generally the question
of David versus Goliath,
you always... not, mean,
not in every situation,
but Davids are a great bet to make.
Because Goliaths are
usually bigger businesses,
they have established practices,
they lose their eye on the ball,
they're focused on
managing things at scale,
sometimes reducing costs,
so maybe not just the hotel example,
but even for many other cases,
most businesses do not have
any systemic effects of scale
that can't be disrupted in other ways.
So, yeah, in many cases
I would definitely bet
against, on the David
versus the Goliath, of course,
there are other cases
where that is not a good bet.
But, yeah, older businesses will get
disrupted, generally, for most industries.
-Nikunj, thoughts?
-Yeah.
Cycle of life will continue.
Big gets too big, too horizontal,
not enough depth, small has that.
And then,
from a consumption perspective,
I think people will continue
to stay way-in,
which means they want the new thing.
They want to differentiate themselves,
and that will continue to want them to do
whatever version of artisanal work.
Perfect, I'm gonna read this?
I just have like four more,
and then I'll tell you
how much you rated which one,
and which is probably a good sector
to focus on for the next decade.
David versus Goliath, Nikunj?
The ten is pro-David
and zero is pro-Goliath, correct?
-Niko?
-Yeah.
I'm like an eight.
I would say a seven,
'cause there are some places
where scale definitely matters,
but then, many cases they don't.
-One good example is in tech...
-Mm-hmm.
...where you see something
like six, seven companies
that created the bulk of the market cap,
if that's a way to measure it,
over everyone else the last 30 years.
So I had this thesis two years ago
that by virtue of cost
per mile or kilometre,
most vehicles will become
EV or hydrogen-focused
in a very short period of time.
So, I spent two years
investing in everything
from electric scooters,
electric buses, trucks,
even a flying electric taxi company.
When I look back at it now,
a lot of these bets did play off,
but the adoption to EV
seems to be slowing down,
and subsidies are being taken away
not just in the US,
but also in countries like India
and other places.
What do you think
is the future there for 2035?
Adoption of electric vehicles
and hydrogen versus IC.
I think for somebody to buy a vehicle,
and let's pick a neutral country, right?
That's not the US. It's not China.
Like one in Latin America,
or like a smaller country in Europe.
The consideration you know
would be, what is the cost?
-Price.
-How often would I need to maintain it?
What's the cost of ownership?
And you actually do see that a number
of the Chinese car manufacturers
that make EVs that, here in the US
you don't see on the street,
are actually winning.
They're far ahead.
Because the price and the total cost
of ownership is pretty awesome.
So when I visited,
you know, different, you know,
such countries over the last few...
over the last year, like, in Columbia,
or, like, in Portugal,
or, like, in Greece,
I was seeing car-make brands
that I had never seen before.
And I was googling them,
and they're, like, massive.
So do I think this is a trend
that will continue?
Yes, I think it's a trend
that will continue.
Might not be everywhere, but
in a lot of, you know, countries,
because people want to have a car.
It's a means for them
to unlock more productivity
and get to work
and make more money,
I think it's a trend
that's not going to stop.
I'll give you the number in India.
If you buy an EV scooter,
it costs about $2,000.
-[Niko] Mm-hmm.
-If you buy an IC scooter,
it costs you about $1,000.
But if you ride this scooter
for 40 kilometres a day,
on an EV scooter, you save $500 a year.
Cost of running.
And much easier to maintain, 'cause the
number of parts are exponentially lesser.
But still, adoption is not that high.
Why do you think adoption numbers have
slowed as much as they have in the US?
Can it just be because the Chinese
are making spectacular EVs,
which are years ahead of them,
and they don't want to even
compete in that market anymore?
What is it? Why did the subsidies go away?
I don't think you can buy any of
the Chinese EV cars here, right?
-No, you can't.
-That's the biggest issue.
If we were to truly operate
like a free market,
I think they would be doing really well.
The same in India.
Like, you can't buy Chinese vehicles.
But are Americans not buying American EVs
because they can't buy Chinese EVs?
-[Nikunj] It's just a cost thing.
-[overlapping conversation]
As Niko said, it's cost and convenience.
There's not enough chargers,
and it costs too much.
If the cheapest car was an EV,
everyone would buy an EV.
Do you think that'll change
in the next ten years?
What percentage of cars on the road
in ten years will be EVs?
In America, I think it'll change.
And that's primarily because of Tesla.
That's the only car company
that moves fast.
And so if that's the only car company
that is allowed to operate, then, yeah.
Then they will figure out how to get
the cost down, one way or the other.
Do you say 100% of cars
will be EV in ten years?
I don't know, 100%,
but I would say like, it would...
a majority of cars will be EV in 10 years
in my mind.
A good proxy would be like
what percent of cars
that are getting sold today are EV, right?
And this could kind of tell you
how the future might look like.
-Like, around 20%, sub-20%.
-Is it? I don't know. But...
So, yeah, if that number
is accelerating...
It was accelerating,
but the pace of acceleration
has slowed down.
Yes, and part of it is the incentives.
Part of it is the economic cycle.
So whenever there is
a slowdown in the economy,
the used car market is doing much better
than the new car market.
Or like, you know, when we had the
disruption with COVID in the supply chain,
new cars became more expensive
and harder, you know, to buy
because you would
have to wait for longer.
So, there's these factors, too.
But do I think that, like, EVs,
anywhere in the world, are going to be
the majority of cars
over the next 10 to 15 years?
Yes, I do think so, yeah.
I think we dramatically overestimate
how fast people will adopt new things,
and cars are a big asset in the country.
It's like saying America
will build ten million homes.
We won't. It's just harder.
And US, especially, from a market
perspective, used car market is massive.
Always has been boom or bust.
And it's very hard to just change it.
Like, new cars will be built,
but they're far more expensive.
And so, I actually think that
without the incentives and...
In ten years, one could argue
they won't be, like, more expensive.
They're probably cheaper.
They're likely to be cheaper.
This is where, like, if the free market--
depends on where you're sourcing it from.
Does have to be US-made? Then, no.
I can still source from a free market.
If free market existed,
I would be very pro,
and I have two EV cars at home,
just to be clear.
Like, I would be very pro, like,
"Oh, we'd see 10% of the market be EV."
But otherwise, it'll be a slow trickle
till these cars go out of...
Yeah, another vector to consider, perhaps,
is in places where we have a lot
of autonomous vehicles adoption,
if, indeed, the total cost of operation
for, like, an autonomous vehicle
is you've got to be EV first,
then, you know, that's another market
that's going to be growing very quickly.
-Right?
-[Nikunj] Yeah. Yeah.
Want to rate it? Niko?
Yeah. I think I'm like a seven,
you know, or an eight.
Yeah. Seven. Seven.
Seven to the statement that, by 2035,
majority of cars will be EV?
Yeah.
In America?
-No, worldwide.
-Oh, seven.
Probably less.
I mean, it's, like, it depends on,
like, China, India, Nigeria, Brazil.
-Right? Like, Indonesia.
-[Deedy] Yeah.
I think those countries will adapt faster
because of efficiency.
The amount of energy lost
between generation and endpoint usage
is lower in EVs.
And people will adopt there because
the cost to travel per mile will be lower.
Yeah. And what if I would say to you,
not in India,
but, in China, huger pollution problem.
The Chinese government
says, "Hey, guys,
from now on,
you wanna buy, like, a gasoline car?
No problem. It's going to be
like 50% more expensive."
The same is happening already.
Like, in India, many cities
are saying that if you're bringing
a truck into the city,
if it's not EV, it's not allowed.
Oh, there you go. So that's, again,
another vector that pushes demand
-even further, right?
-But then, why only seven?
Because I'm not as fluent
in the exact numbers.
And it depends on, like, this four or five
big, very populous countries, right?
Right. Right. Nikunj?
I think if it's new cars, like,
on what percentage of new cars--
-New cars.
-Oh, new cars. In 2035, yeah.
That'd be, like, a seven.
-All right.
-Oh, it's for new cars?
I was thinking, like, total cars.
-That's what, yeah, yeah.
-Let's say for new cars.
[overlapping conversation]
Yeah, I'm like, nine. Yeah.
-[Deedy] Yes.
-Same?
[Niko] Yeah, like...
Because I was thinking,
you know, the average lifetime
of a car in a bunch of countries,
like, you know, 12 years.
-I was trying to do that math.
-Yeah.
-That was, like, VC math in your head.
-[laughter]
-Nine as well?
-I think, eight,
primarily because I think,
especially in the US, like,
with the conservative government,
like oil and gas is not going anywhere.
It'll take a long time
for us to, like, move...
Like, from a politics perspective,
EV force is not gonna be very popular
for the next six years.
But from a cost perspective,
the cost of everything else
compared to fossil
is falling so quickly.
But the problem is batteries--
Again, it's, like, American choice.
Like, you know, it's, like, "I can go
fill up my petrol wherever I want.
I can go to a gas station.
I can kind of, like, have this--
I don't want to wait for 45 minutes."
Convenience-- battery technology
is not evolving fast enough.
I'll give you an example.
We invested in this electric truck company
which has interchangeable batteries,
like, battery swap.
The largest company
which does battery swap in the world
is called SANY in China.
So, these trucks drive
-with two batteries at a time.
-[Nikunj] Yeah.
They go to something which is
as small as one container box,
and the batteries are swapped
in the same amount of time
that it would take for you
to stop at a gas station
-and fill fuel.
-Yeah.
Each battery gives you a range
-of 700 kilometres.
-Yeah.
So, two batteries together let you drive
1400 kilometres.
Yeah.
India, end to end, let's say is,
I don't know, 4,000, 5,000 kilometres.
What that means is
the number of petrol stations
that you require in itself
come down exponentially.
You probably only need
50 container-sized stations
across the country
to get these trucks to go
across the length
and breadth of the country.
I think the model is changing
significantly,
even for a country
as broad and wide as India.
I think the replacement,
as you mentioned, like eight,
is... I won't be a ten
because there'll still be choice,
and people will--
It takes a while to flow in.
Like, even today,
I disagree with Deedy,
like charging stations are good enough.
Like, every... in America,
infrastructure is already there.
People are still voting
to not buy EV cars,
even though they're cost-appropriate.
It just takes time for people to change.
Right. Right.
OK. Point number eight of ten.
Beauty as a category.
-Beauty products.
-Ten.
-Yeah?
-[Niko] Same.
-[Nikhil] Yeah?
-Yeah.
And beauty and content
are in line with each other, I think.
Look who are the wealthiest people
outside of tech.
Anyone who's in beauty and luxury.
Yeah. Luxury.
-It's luxury.
-Beauty and luxury. Yeah.
-Luxury also ten?
-Yeah.
-I was saying, who are the wealthiest...
-Besides tech.
...you know, like, uh, individuals
or families outside of technology?
Anyone who's in beauty or in luxury goods.
Should I just add them and make them one?
Beauty, luxury.
And then, like, if we want to take
a glimpse into the future,
we would go into South Korea,
where indeed they have one of
the lowest fertility rates in the world,
but they are
massive exporters of culture.
And over there, if you're a man,
there is more than 50% chance that
they use beauty products every single day.
[Nikhil] Yeah.
So, like, again, you know, those guys'
population, you know, will shrink.
But if everyone was, like, 80 years old,
looks like a 50 year old,
-that's a good trade for most people.
-And the surgeries in South Korea.
We've been ideating
what to build in beauty.
We're trying to come up with something.
Any ideas?
What could work as a product category?
-In beauty?
-[Nikhil] Yeah, now.
Like, beauty gives you confidence, right?
No, but if I want to build a brand
in beauty, like we have a team
which does a lot of consumer brands
that we run, not just invest in.
If we build for beauty, what do you think
could work in today's day cycle?
-Can you help me eliminate my wrinkles?
-Right.
I would pay for that.
I think male beauty...
Could you make Botox,
you know, 90% cheaper?
-I would pay for that.
-Right.
Anti-ageing?
Anything anti-ageing that's more easily
to get to...
-[Nikhil] Men's.
-...and cheaper? Yeah.
I think make-- for men to make it more
accessible and cooler with content,
you could do that.
-[Niko] You could do that, too.
-Yeah.
I have the opposite take,
I think I would build, like,
a very high end luxurious brand for,
like, the top 10% of Indian males.
-For Indian males.
-We're talking about India, right?
No, not necessarily.
I'd take the opposite route,
which is like I'll take...
take hard problems, like anti-ageing.
I'm guessing you fall into the top 10%,
so would you buy?
-Yeah.
-What would you buy?
-Whatever.
-Would you buy like make up?
I think this is where--
So, the other aspect
of it's, like, invisible.
-Right.
-What is invisible today?
Is there, like, an invisible foundation
that makes me look five years younger?
-You would?
-Yeah.
-You would, too?
-I know nothing about beauty, but I mean,
I think there's...
All of these things are credible.
I think there is a gap in male beauty,
but I think women are obviously
the primary consumers of beauty products.
So, there's a lot you can do there.
I just-- I know nothing about that.
I mean, look into Ozempic, you know.
-[Nikhil] Yeah.
-Most people take it.
-It is beauty.
-[Niko] Every week.
Because they don't want
to ever fucking be on a diet.
Yeah.
-I know a lot of people like us...
-Yeah.
...who are in their 30s or 40s.
They've never had any issues
with their weight,
but they don't wanna be on a diet.
They wanna eat everything.
They take Ozempic. It's a beauty product.
I'm guessing longevity and wellness
you guys will rank highly as well.
-Yeah.
-Tens?
Yeah, it's a question of affordability,
so it would be a 9, you know.
-Longevity and wellness?
-[Niko] Yeah.
For you?
Yeah. I think like...
At what price point matters,
-but... as a category, yeah.
-Nine?
-I'm more of an eight.
It's like anti-recession.
I mean, have you guys
ever, like, taken a flight
that's connecting through
Istanbul and Turkey?
Of course.
-What do you see there?
-A great airport.
-[Nikhil] Hair.
-Great airport.
-Yeah. Isn't that freaking insane?
-Yeah.
Where was that industry,
like, 10 years ago?
-It wasn't there.
-Yeah.
And now, thanks to TikTok and content,
it has become like...
...a global destination.
Live events.
Concerts, theatres, plays.
I would even put something like...
a high-end restaurant as a live event.
I think the nature
of live events is shifting to...
people want to advertise that
they were at a live event
on their Instagram, predominantly.
I think that's the main purpose
for most people that go to live events.
Or others do it, you know, on your behalf,
and you lose your job,
as the whole world learned last week.
Everyone wants to go to
a good Coldplay concert, you know?
Um, so...
But, generally,
I'm more neutral on live events
because I do think
attention capture is going to be
more massive on digital.
And so, there's going to be
a smaller set of people in my mind
that want to go to live events.
Yeah?
Net volume...
Not, maybe not a number, but the net
volume of time spent at a live event,
I don't really have a strong view
that it goes up.
I actually don't know.
Niko, what do you think?
I think most live events, historically,
have been like shit businesses to run.
But in a world where the offline
experiences become the scars,
in a world where
we get tired of being online,
in front of our screens for 14 hours,
there's going to be a premium.
You mentioned Taylor Swift.
There's a reason why she's a billionaire.
She's figured out how to make
so much money from her super fans.
And to the extent
more and more Taylor Swifts exists,
which, I think, will be the case
in the individualistic, driven,
you know, society
that we live in today,
live, live offline experiences
will do really well.
And it could be a restaurant.
You know, like,
what if, you know,
the Japanese sushi chef you mentioned
was more capitalist-driven?
Wouldn't you want to do it
in front of like a massive arena,
or tour the world and do it?
I don't know, scarcity matters, though.
I think it's... Scarcity is...
[Niko] You bring up to a good point, yeah.
Scarcity will never go away.
-Desirability comes from scarcity.
-[Niko] Right.
Wanna rate live events?
Niko?
-I'm like, you know, like, an eight.
-[Nikhil] OK.
Five.
OK.
Yeah, I think, philosophically,
I want more live events.
But I'm with Deedy here, short-term.
It's, like, six. Like,
where we'll move towards live events.
Six.
Again, you know, like,
they're mostly shit businesses,
but, like, looking to, like,
what happened with the World Cup,
for, like, the clubs
for soccer in the US.
Like, this was a brand new
revenue stream out of nowhere.
Like, the winner pocketed over
100 million, you know, dollars.
Chelsea.
We, the Europeans, you know,
are snobs, and we don't care about it.
But if the numbers, you know, go up,
which is likely in the future,
would you pay attention to it?
Probably you would.
But I'll bet still that
digital coverage of soccer
will have a higher percentage from
an eyeballs and viewership perspective,
percentage of time perspective
than live events.
But supply and demand
comes in there, right?
Like, the supply of digital
is for everyone.
But novelty of live is...
Yeah, but I think
that's what we're betting on.
My way of giving a score is, like,
what do I think percentage of time
goes up in live events versus digital?
I would bet screen time goes up higher
than live event time.
-That's fair.
-And then, my response to you, Niko,
I think there is more concentration
in live events,
but not necessarily net volume increase.
I think more people gravitate
to the Coldplay concerts,
to the Taylor Swift concerts.
-That is fair.
-And the Chelsea game.
But I think most events
that are not places you want to be seen
are not that interesting.
That's why when you look
into most ticketing businesses
that serve the long tail,
they are really shit.
They can't make money,
nobody shows up, people don't pay.
OK, last one. Climate tech.
What is climate tech?
What's the definition?
Carbon capture.
The thesis behind the statement is,
someday soon,
I mean, it could be carbon credit trading.
If there were one large event,
where say 10,000 people die,
say there's a flood in Miami,
the water levels keep rising.
Suddenly, everybody...
will go back to climate
and start taking it very seriously.
Like, climate tech could even be software.
Like, I was at this...
I'm part of this group
called the Gates Pledge,
where, I think, your colleagues,
a couple of them are there,
one of them is there.
And there was this professor this year
who was showing a model that he had built,
where the base case is world's temperature
will rise by 1.6 degrees by 2100,
and what can you tweak in the software
which changes it.
Is it a carbon tax?
Is it lesser amount of coal?
Is it more allocation to nuclear?
There are funds like Breakthrough Energy,
which are working on this.
So, all of this somehow
comes into climate tech.
Yeah, I mean, we need to do
something about it.
The challenge is, for many humans,
it's hard to relate.
Even if I live in Miami, and there's
a huge flood, and I lose my home,
then I might move somewhere else,
and I might forget about it.
Or my local politician, you know,
who was responsible for coming up
with subsidies or incentives,
that stuff, like, doesn't get them
necessarily re-elected in the next cycle.
Actually, fair point.
There was a fire here in California,
and everyone's forgotten about it.
Yes.
We forget. It's pretty unfortunate.
I mean, same applies to health stuff.
Like, you know, we had COVID.
-Yeah, nobody remembers COVID.
-[Niko] No.
-I think, you know, Niko...
-Moderna remembers.
Their stock price is down from 400 to 31.
God bless those guys.
I think climate tech is a overloaded term,
'cause it means so many things,
and a lot of it is a bad word,
especially in venture
for a bunch of historical reasons.
But, energy, I think,
unambiguously positive,
and energy is a big part of climate.
-So, and...
-You mean, like, renewable energy?
All energy.
How do we get cheaper, better,
more sustainable energy?
Yes.
So, everything from nuclear
to solar to geothermal.
I mean, different...
-Can we have fission, right?
-Yeah.
From propensities of work,
I think that is climate tech.
I mean, if we can figure out how
to get energy in a hyper-dense way,
then we won't need to solve
all these other problems. So...
Yeah, geothermal fits into climate.
So energy, yes, rest of climate tech,
ambiguous on definition.
Well, you can come up with,
like, creative solutions, right?
Like, whenever in the world we have
massive volcanic eruptions,
there is a cooling of the temperature,
you know, on the planet.
So, like, could we do any of that,
you know, in ways that is safe
for all the industries and humans
that are running on the planet?
Could be powerful, or like, finding
creative ideas, you know, to have...
a very positive effect
in an economic manner.
It's like, could we paint all of
the Sahara desert in any way that's...
reflecting back some of the heat?
Who knows?
The challenge, it's a very...
complex, you know, space.
It's like trying to cure cancer.
Like, cancer's not
one disease, you know.
And every little one
of these solutions contribute,
but then, you pay attention to subsidies,
and capital and labour-intensive,
and it's more project finance.
I think there's a subtler point in
all of this stuff, because, you know,
Niko, I know you're gonna
ask this on an investment lens.
So, being bullish on a lot of these things
doesn't necessarily make them
easy investments
because you look at biotech,
you look at energy,
it's just the failure rate is so high
that you might be, like,
"Of course, these things matter,
but investing in these things may
probably lose me money in most cases."
If you remove the venture lens,
and you buy the incumbent with a moat,
you at least want to be in a sector,
you think, has the inputs.
Perhaps, yeah. I think that's fair to say.
Because I'm not looking at it
from the venture lens.
I'm looking at it
from my investment lens, overall.
So, I'm going to say
climate tech energy, largely.
Would you bet on that, number?
-Deedy?
-I would say it's, you know,
all of AI is built on
more compute and energy,
so, that is one reason, but nine. Nine.
-Nikunj?
-Yeah, I mean, if I had to bet,
an agnostic of where else
I could put my dollars,
if I had to bet on the climate, yeah,
I would definitely put, like, seven.
-Niko?
-Yeah, I would be an eight.
Because, like, we need more energy.
This is one of the ways
you boost productivity.
That's one of the ways
you boost economic growth.
AI is, like, a hog for energy.
But I actually think the world
gets worse in the near term
because energy will become
the fundamental limiter,
which means we will frack more.
We'll pull more from the ocean.
Because nuclear fission and fusion
will still take time to build.
You can't build solar panels fast enough.
That's why I was, like, a seven.
I'm, like, do I believe
climate tech will solve?
-[Nikhil] Yeah.
-Yes, but it'll take a longer time period.
But the world will get much worse
in the next 10 years,
from a climate change perspective.
So, data centres,
at least back home in India,
have become, like,
a real estate play, almost.
-Yeah.
-[Niko] Yeah.
Everyone and their cousin and uncle
and auntie are building data centres...
-Makes sense.
-...who built apartments
up until yesterday.
Do you think bubble now?
-Not yet.
-[Nikunj] No.
Bubble if you buy into it now?
No.
The multiples are not high.
You get these companies at 16 to 20 EBITA,
depending on which geography you pick.
Data centre businesses.
You think it's a good place
to get allocation?
But do you have any real estate arbitrage?
Do you have any energy arbitrage?
Everyone has a different narrative.
One is near a power station.
One is also a real estate player,
so they have real estate arbitrage.
Different people have different things.
India has...
We mandated that financial data
of Indians has to stay in India.
And as much as a big chunk
of data created is in India,
so if they mandate that all Indian data
has to be in India, it becomes...
I think that's a very good narrative
that will be driving,
you know, local pockets of demand
in many different countries.
Can you bet on the operator that,
over time, will be the consolidator?
[Nikhil] Yeah.
If you can find that awesome entrepreneur,
I think it could be a good trade.
I still think it's underrated.
I think the amount of compute
and each country...
Don't you think compute
will get more efficient with time?
Will need lesser space in data centre?
But we'll continue to use
more and more of it.
You think?
100%. I mean, Google just announced they
doubled their token usage in three months.
Google, like, I think we're just...
at the very early innings
of how much token usage we're in.
Even with efficiency,
we're going to use far more compute.
Even with chips getting better,
we'll still use more.
I think I don't think that goes away
for the next ten years.
Now, the question--
And then, each country,
will use compute and energy
as they're like...
It's like a nuclear weapon,
like, you will have this.
Like, you will want to
keep ownership of this.
Right now, it's a big geopolitical risk
where, like, Saudi's especially,
and other countries are hoarding this,
whether it's chips or energy,
and that becomes a strategic
geopolitical asset for them.
-India will not want to be left behind.
-Rate it.
Data centres as an investment? Nine.
-Depends on the percentage.
-Today.
Niko? For 2035.
Again, this is an exceptions business.
'Cause you got to pick the right operator
that has all the other...
you know, right conditions.
But as a broader trend? Yes.
I would be a seven.
I'm actually lower because I think,
yes, there's a need for compute.
But, like, to Niko's point,
there's so much
that goes into running a data centre.
Do you have the skill? How often
do you have to renew the hardware?
What are the hardware
you're putting into that?
How much does that cost?
How much are you selling it for?
Like, there's a lot of things that go
into the business of data centres.
So, yes, will data centres exist?
Generally, yes.
There'll be more and more,
but some data centres are
extremely bad businesses.
Mm-hmm.
-Multiples have not been also good.
-Sorry. Yeah.
Multiples haven't been good.
And there's ways to really fuck that up.
You can buy a bunch of NVIDIA
and then sell inference,
and you might be making,
like, pennies on the dollar.
So, you know, it really depends.
So, overall, I would say...
Six.
I'm gonna ask you advice
on a few companies
I've been reviewing when I'm here.
I had a thesis that,
when we all have more time at hand,
when abundance comes about
and productivity goes up,
I wagered a guess that
humans will go back to what
they always intrinsically did.
One big activity is speculation.
So, I was speaking to companies
like Kalshi and Polymarket,
what do you think of them as investments?
Forget the regulation side of it.
-Forget one is US and one is outside.
-I love it, gambling is a good investment.
I mean, gambling will always
be good as long as it's legal.
So, people... It's a vice.
It's a vice investment.
People like to speculate
and make money off of it.
You think even today
at the crazy multiples that they're at?
Yeah. I think so. I mean,
the more people come in,
more of those markets become liquid.
They become more investable,
they become market makers.
More institutional players might come on.
There's a whole bunch of things
that can happen around prediction markets.
So, I think it's a... it's a great thing.
I would like it.
I think you said forget regulation--
Forget regulation
'cause Kalshi is regulated in the US.
Polymarket is more on the blockchain,
peer-to-peer betting,
more international customers.
I'm guessing Robinhood
will soon figure out
whether they're a partner
or are they going to replicate
what they could maybe easily replicate?
There's so many moving parts
when it comes to regulation,
I don't know how to put it in a box.
Yes, look, assuming
that regulation is, like, sold,
you know, for the category,
is this going to be a great category?
Yes, I think it's a great category.
Because it's entertainment.
You already have evidence from several
of these that it can do more eyeballs,
you know, really there.
You have, like,
a well-driven business model
for some of these that really works
for other industries.
The margins can be pretty awesome,
depending on how much the regulators
would want you, you know, to...
part with them.
And then, the new cycle is great news
for all of these businesses.
So, overall, again, you know,
regulation risk aside...
pretty bullish about the category.
Yes, I mean, in the class of entertainment
as a whole, especially with abundance,
there's going to be
infinite money in time.
Do you bet, Nikunj?
I feel like you're a closeted something,
and you're outside something.
-No, no, no. I play--
-[laughter]
I play poker quite frequently.
So...
I feel like there's another version
of Nikunj that he doesn't let on.
I... No, I play poker.
-You have to deny it now, don't you?
-Yeah.
Top 2% of sports betters worldwide.
I play FIFA a lot.
-What's your vice, Nikunj?
-What's my vice?
Probably...
Just like, yeah, probably poker.
It was like I spent
a lot of time playing...
Poker is not a vice, come on.
Get creative.
I don't have... I don't know.
You're so composed on the outside,
inside has to have something else.
No, I've always been like--
My friends, growing up,
always called me, like, a granddad.
I've always been that way.
I like sleep. This is like...
-Did you enjoy being called a granddad?
-Yeah, I have no problem.
Not "no problem". Did you like it?
-Yeah. I was perfectly fine with that.
-Why?
I don't know something about, like,
maybe I have more wisdom
than the average person.
Maybe the vanity side of it, could be.
But...
[overlapping conversations]
That's a good granddad answer, too.
I don't see the vanity of wisdom.
I see the vanity in many things.
But the older person kind of vanity,
I don't see why it appeals to a young boy.
I don't know. I've never been...
Yeah. I...
Maybe I've just been
very comfortable. Like,
you know, it's like, I want to go to sleep
at 9pm, I'll sleep at 9pm.
-I know that's your projection.
-Yeah.
-No, that is...
-Loving husband,
two kids, electric cars...
You should ask my wife. Yeah.
How did you meet your wife?
-We met in high school.
-[Niko] Wow.
-Yeah. This is just like textbook.
-Fairy-tale.
No, but the craziest thing about
our life story is, we never dated.
We never lived together.
I just knew her for 10 years,
and then' one day I asked her,
"Will you marry me?"
And she said, "Fuck, no."
And then, I convinced her.
Two months later, we got engaged.
More textbook.
[laughter]
Right?
[Nikunj] Yeah.
I wish I had the time to poke it.
[laughter]
Not today.
I wonder if you asked ChatGPT,
"Describe me in three words"
based on everything that it knows.
-I'll just try it now.
-I would love to know what it says.
My phone's there. We can try it now.
-I can try it right now.
-[Deedy chuckling]
What model should we use?
I don't know, o3?
-o3 is probably the...
-[Nikunj] o3?
-Of course.
-My go-to.
I have o3-Pro.
"Based on everything..."
-[Deedy] That might take a while.
-"...you know..." Yeah.
-"...about me."
-[Niko] Oh, my God, you know--
"Describe me."
We're gonna burn a few trees
in the rain-forest, you know.
-Just to know.
Too much energy.
-[Nikunj] All right.
-I'm actually super curious now.
He probably watches
what he says to ChatGPT as well.
-No.
I actually never use the...
Because that's somebody else
keeping your data for you, right?
I actually... ChatGPT knows me
probably better than anybody else in life.
-Wow. Including the wife?
-[Nikhil] Is that a good thing?
No.
It has to, because you spend
so much time, sharing your thoughts.
Everything I write, everything
I talk about, everything.
-Like, every thought goes through it.
-[Deedy] Wow.
-I'm fully bionic, that way.
-Yeah.
-Yeah. I mean, same.
It says... Oh, I hate the last one.
But it says, "Analytical,
proactive, visionary".
I don't think the last agrees,
but the other two, probably true.
That's great. New LinkedIn headline.
Now, tell ChatGPT, "Tell me the truth."
"Tell me the real truth."
Let's see.
[Deedy] That's funny.
This is the real podcast. I love this.
"Assessing the real truth", let's see.
Normally, I'm, like,
a little bit more probing.
-[Deedy] Mm.
-But, today, we're so many people,
and we're talking about something
I want to get out of the way.
Mm. Yeah, fair enough.
"Superpowers.
Patent spotter, relentless editor,
agency amplifier."
Can I write this one?
Yeah, go for it.
-Please be funny.
-Yeah.
I'm gonna write...
"Speak like Jung,
a therapist I really like.
"What are my shadow traits
I don't want to take cognisance of?"
So, Chris Pack did this thing
called "/Graham" on Deer Browser.
-Did you guys see this?
-[Deedy] No, what is it?
It basically psychoanalyses you.
Uh, "slash" what?
It's called "/Graham",
based on Graham Duncan...
-[Deedy] Oh, OK.
-...who did this, basically, prompt.
It's a very good prompt.
It goes through your Twitter
and just psychoanalyses you.
I posted mine online so you can see it,
what it said about me.
And so, everything
I thought through, everything...
-Yeah.
-What did it say?
-You could also...
-It's reflecting right now.
You could also ask if he's a gambler.
-You can ask, yeah.
-[Deedy chuckling]
"My biggest vice is poker."
"What are my biggest vices,
ChatGPT, tell me?"
OK, this is getting better.
Oh, my, you're an expert prompter.
What does it say?
"The tyrant of efficiency..."
-It's true.
-Wow.
"...counts seconds like coins
and curses every idle breath."
That is true.
"The specter of control.
Fears chaos more than failure."
Maybe. Yeah.
"The armour of intellect.
A polished exterior forged
from logic and data.
Deflects feelings, both yours and others."
Yeah.
"The mirror of validation,
reflects only on achievement.
Each milestone fades
the moment it is reached,
demanding the next pry to prove?
The shadow of exhaustion.
Invisible at first.
It whimpers that stamina is limitless.
Ignore it long enough,
and it steps forward as burnout."
Better.
But not that different
from what you said, I mean.
-Better. Like, a little bit less filtered.
-Yeah.
I wrote a post called
"I'm not good enough"
that talks about every failure
I've had in life.
So...
This is why humans are better than AI.
We're vulnerable.
Yeah.
You can use it, you know,
to our advantage.
OK, let's rate speculations.
-Like, Polymarket?
-Yeah, Polymarket.
Kalshi, all that stuff.
I mean, without regulation, I'm a ten.
OK.
I'm a nine, you know, without regulation.
-OK.
-Nine.
Especially if you can include...
It's a part of entertainment for me.
Nice.
OK, so, when we spoke
about how the world will change--
Wait, let me first summarise
what got the highest marks.
So, we said...
beauty and luxury is like
a great sector to build in.
30 out of 30.
Followed by speculation and gambling.
-Great sector to build it.
-All vice businesses.
-[Deedy] Vanity?
-Yeah.
-It's just vanity.
Followed, strangely, by education,
which is outcome-based.
Yeah.
Then came...
world older-sicker, senior living,
content, EV adoption.
Yeah.
Those had the same number.
That's interesting.
We'll put this up on a chart
and we'll say what each of you said,
and why they said it.
I feel like this is very useful data,
both, for capital allocators like us,
but also, if I'm a young kid
looking to start something,
it allows me to extrapolate
a rate of growth,
so at least I have some tailwind
in the industry that I'm building.
Right?
So...
I don't know, I would disagree
with that last bit.
Yeah? Why?
I think so much about building is more
about where your unfair advantage is,
not where the macro is going.
And so, I think, you know,
take beauty for an example.
Like, I'm sure some of us have friends.
I have friends building in beauty,
often, I think, you know,
not doing a great job,
it's not because I don't believe
in beauty-as-a-hack thing...
You don't have any unfair right to win.
You're not doing this correctly.
So, I think that's a bigger part
of the equation for me, especially when,
you know,
young people come to you for advice,
then you're not going to say,
just because I think
beauty products are going to do well,
that you should go do--
build a beauty product.
Those are not, you know...
Are you still going to contest
that your unfair advantage is distribution
because of content?
-For me?
-Yeah.
On what?
-On anything you want to build tomorrow?
-100%. That's one of them.
-Yeah.
-The main one?
Probably. It's probably the rarest one.
I mean, I would say
I have some unfair advantage
on, like, selling to big enterprises,
but so many other people do.
Are you worried that you might be
perceived as a content creator
versus all the other stuff that you do,
and, hence, you try and push it away?
Yeah. 100%.
I don't want people perceiving me as that.
I think it's a terrible tag-line.
I don't want to be called an influencer
or a content creator.
-Why not?
Why not?
Because this is... I think it comes
with an association that I do not enjoy.
Right? Like, I do it
for a certain kind of reason.
And I don't think most people who do it
do it for that same reason.
And I think when you use the label,
then people interpret it for the latter.
Like, they think you're doing it for fame,
glory, yada, yada, yada,
and I don't think I am.
And so, therefore, I don't like the label.
But isn't it like a form of storytelling,
form of art?
If you called it a storyteller,
I would be, like, call me that all day.
There you go.
But it's very different
than calling somebody...
Isn't every influencer a storyteller,
at the end of the day?
I don't think so.
That's definitely not true.
Tell me one very popular influencer
who doesn't tell stories well.
I don't want to diss on
some of these influencers.
Let's say this.
If you go on some
of the top Twitter profiles,
on X or whatever, on X,
most of them are not telling stories.
They are inciting rage.
That's not-- I mean, you could argue
that's some kind of story.
But that's not really a story.
They're not trying
to convey anything meaningful.
It's rage bait.
They're just taking the contrarian
narrative to the populist one, right?
Some of them. I don't think--
I think there's a couple of trends.
One of them is that.
But a lot of people can be popular
on various different platforms,
doing things
that don't involve storytelling.
-What you're also saying is--
-Sharing nude photos of yourself?
I mean, yeah. Exactly.
-You're telling some kind of story.
-Have you done that, Niko?
-You're telling some...
-[laughter]
[Niko] Have I done it?
Not like, you know, for popular demand.
-Yeah.
-Yeah, haven't. Not yet.
I suspect you're left-leaning.
-Left-leaning?
-Almost socialist.
-Almost socialist?
-Wow. Just 'cause he's Greek?
-How so?
-I don't know.
Just the things you're saying.
Things I'm saying, OK.
There was a distaste for capitalism
which came across
when you said something earlier.
Well, I've been working in the US
for the last, you know...
15 years!
So, clearly, I'm confused, you know?
Yeah.
-Fair point.
-Yeah.
OK. I'm going to ask you guys
for another opinion
on a company called Harvey.
Harvey AI. Thoughts?
Legal tech. Legal AI.
Wow. These are very...
These are companies
I've been meeting in the last two weeks.
And I've been trying to figure out
how to, maybe, do something with them.
-Allocation-wise.
-[Deedy] It's difficult to get answers
out of VCs on companies like this.
-Why?
-In my understanding.
-Do you have exposure?
-Yeah.
Because there's no incentive for us
to ever share a negative view on it.
No, I think Harvey is very good.
But, in general,
asking VCs about companies is bad
because if they're invested,
they have to be positive,
and if they're not,
they still have to kind of be positive.
OK, with the caveat
that you're not invested,
you can give me a more objective opinion.
Not on camera.
You never get it on camera.
[Deedy] You just can't.
Basically, every company
you're going to ask us about,
all of us are going to say great things.
Like, that's what's going to happen,
almost no matter what.
Unless it's a clear disaster company.
Niko might.
-He might say...
-I don't know, Niko.
Can you say anything bad about a company?
I mean, you can give some criticism,
you know?
Would you go all out?
-You wouldn't, right?
-Yeah.
I don't know as much
about, you know, Harvey
to give you an informed opinion, OK?
And I'm not saying that
to sound politically correct.
But do I think they're building
on the right side of history? They are.
Have they been amazing
at signing up a lot of the largest
law firms on the planet?
They have.
Has this led to them...
achieving a capital, like,
fund-raising advantage?
It has.
Has this translated
into them recruiting amazing people?
It has.
Is their product the best in the space?
I have no idea.
Not close, you know, to the company.
But, as you know, Nikunj was saying,
the product has to be really good.
You know, because attorneys,
for better or for worse,
you know, after FOMO goes away,
they do care about these things.
So, like, you know,
given where they are now,
probably you would get
a really good, informed opinion about them
if you talk to many other customers
who've been bombarded
by everyone else and their mother
who've been starting
AI legal tech companies.
That's actually one of the spaces
we missed here that has been so busy.
So, if someone is starting now, a new
legal tech company seed, Series A,
probably you would say no
to, you know, in the US.
It's just so busy.
[Nikunj] I have the opposite take on that.
-[Niko] Go for it.
-I think-- Not on Harvey,
but I'm saying, in general,
especially with the RL focus
and models stabilising...
[Niko] Yeah.
...I think the era of second-mover
advantages starts this year.
-OK.
-Or it starts now, basically,
where we'll start seeing
even companies started three years ago,
be disrupted by a better product.
Now, the David versus Goliath will be,
in just three years,
can the better product
out-distribute them or not?
But, for example, if somebody came in
with, like, a seed,
Series A bet that takes in,
like, an established giant, not Harvey,
but, in general, in any area,
but they have, clearly, a better product,
I would still be interested in,
at least, like, exploring that bet,
even though they've been out-distributed,
just because we're seeing such crazy
advances on the technology side.
And the stacks are leaner.
Gross margins are better.
Now, the questions are
just about distribution.
If it's as great as you sound,
please give us a call.
[laughter]
Can I ask, what is India's play
in all this?
You know, I'm talking
to young entrepreneurs in India.
Where does India fit in?
You can be candid. Don't say, "On camera,
I won't say this, that, and the other."
I think a big problem
in many parts of life is
when we don't recognise
that there is a problem.
I don't think you can find a solution
if you don't first get there.
Yeah.
And that's where I think
what you mentioned before is important.
Like, having a knowledge
of where the trends are happening,
and where, you know,
the growth is going to be.
Sure. You always want to play,
you know, for your strengths.
But isn't it even more amazing
when you can play, you know,
towards your strengths
in the biggest market opportunities?
Like, I find myself incredibly lucky
that, you know,
17 years ago, I said, "I'm going to go
and have a career in tech."
Because none of my friends, the people
I grew up with, you know, did that.
And it's just a lucky accident,
you know, for me.
So, like, just knowing
where the trends are heading to
is important for, like, the youth.
Yeah.
I mean, I can give a couple of thoughts
on India and AI.
And, in general, I've been
somewhat public about this, too.
And some people have not liked it.
But, I think...
unlike other things,
other kinds of technology in the past,
where you could create a local economy
with that technology,
I mean, for example, you have your,
even sharing services
and the gig working booms, OYO,
you know, existed in India,
just like when Airbnb were,
or you have an Ola, just like an Uber,
you can create local versions of those
businesses that work for that area,
and you're not really competing
unless that other company comes
and tries to compete in that area.
On AI, I don't think there is
any local advantage.
So, I think everyone is competing
on the same playing field.
And there are a couple of common things
that come up that people say, "Hey,
these could potentially
be local advantages."
Like, one is, let's get data
for languages in India.
Like, yeah, that's great.
I think that's perfectly valid,
if Google doesn't pour more resources
and try to get the same thing
and you have an advantage,
that makes sense.
I like that view.
But for most other things,
I think I would love to see, I would say,
India try to compete on that global scale,
and that needs capital, that needs talent,
that needs just a desire
to want to be on the cutting edge.
And, in my mind, it's not there yet.
I mean, I think that's empirical.
None of the top models are Indian models.
They're American, and they're Chinese.
In any field, I mean, audio, video, image.
So, I would say
in the global playing field of AI,
I mean, the most prominent Indian figures
are probably, like,
somebody like an Aravind at Perplexity,
or maybe some of the researchers at
some of these labs and things like that.
So, therefore, in my opinion,
today, I wouldn't say
they're competing at a global level.
I don't know if they have-- people
on the ground have ambition to,
but I think there's a couple of gaps
to be filled.
What can they change?
I mean, the ambition is definitely there.
What can India do
to get competitive in this realm?
I think one of the things that is...
I'll say an observation first,
and I'll answer the question.
One of the observations I have,
in general,
about how India reacts to technology is,
India reacted to AI, like,
"I want to be a part of this,"
well after this was a thing.
And that general mindset will
rarely make you win at a thing.
And so, if you compare that
to China, for example,
I mean, there are many differences,
I mean, China has had
so much local talent,
so much development in math,
so much research in AI
for many, many years, pre-LLMs,
that allowed them
to then capitalise on that
and go like, "OK, look, we can
probably do something here, too.
We have the base built out."
And, I think, for India
to do something in AI, like,
I don't know
if a lot of that base is built up.
There's a huge talent leakage problem.
Most of the top AI talent in India
is here, right?
And literally a three square mile radius
from where we are.
There's a talent problem,
there's a comp problem.
Why would a AI researcher want
to be paid in rupees? I don't.
I want to be paid a million dollars
or a hundred million dollars
like they're getting paid here.
And then, there's a general,
systemic problem on,
like, just capital is
a little bit harder to get.
And then, resources are harder to get.
And then, people haven't done work
on GPUs in India.
If you go into Bangalore today,
how many people
have ever programmed a GPU?
Very hard to do anything in AI
if you've never programmed a GPU.
If you're starting from scratch,
you're gonna have to catch up.
So, I think there's a lot
of systemic factors.
And then, to solve that problem,
invest in core research,
figure out how to keep talent
in the country.
And you would have to do it a long time
before something picks up for you
to be able to take advantage of that.
There's no accident that China
was able to take advantage of that.
They had a lot of foundation
built in many, many ways.
So, that's my take.
I've spent half my life here,
most of my professional life.
All my professional life. So, I don't
have a view in the India market.
I mean, a lot of things Deedy says,
I echo.
But I do think we have to
kind of... The best...
I think India has a two-decade advantage
from a pure median age perspective.
Like, the youngest talent
in the world is in India right now.
And I feel like if you don't capture it
in the next two decades,
like, that shifts to Africa
or shifts to the next country.
And I feel-- I don't know
what the answer is,
but I would love to see us
capture the advantage there,
at least from a pure,
being in the prime perspective,
India is in its prime
from a population standpoint.
And the depth of talent
and the depth of young people.
So, that's one.
That's the optimistic side.
Now, what you do with it
is the main problem.
But I kind of echo it differently
than Deedy.
Like, you don't need
the best AI researcher.
I mean, it would be great if India had
a lot of great AI researchers,
and they all stayed there,
but the brain-drain problem has
been true for the past 50 years,
and that'll continue to stay true.
All the best Indian entrepreneurs I know
are trying to move here.
But you try to figure out
where in the playing field do you play.
Like, you know,
Freshworks is a great example,
where they took a product that--
and figured out the right markets for it.
Is there products
in this new AI application era,
or are there products
in the biotech space?
India has insane amount of talent
and hospitals and vaccines,
like, centres are there,
like, manufacturing side.
Take manufacturing as a sector.
Like, you know, the China and Plus One
model can really benefit India.
So, take the sectors
it's going to be phenomenal at,
and then go from the very bottom
up to the top,
and see how can you allocate capital,
people, training to win those markets,
versus play the "me too" movement.
I feel like a lot of Indians
I meet in India,
just, like, have this envy,
and they look at the US market,
and they want to be in the US market
versus play the games
you're going to be excellent at,
-and then find ways to...
-Which are?
-I mean, the things I mentioned.
Again, but I don't know
the India market as well.
But I do believe, like,
the China and Plus One is happening.
Like, it's for 100% happening
from manufacturing...
-Not in AI.
But that's what I'm saying,
don't miss the AI boat,
but play on the application level,
which, I think, India still
has fantastic product engineers
and designers who can go build that.
That's a talent that is easily portable
from the pre-AI era,
and then pick the markets
where it's going to be excellent at.
I don't know if that's minerals.
I don't know if that's mining.
I don't know if that's robotics.
I don't know the India market,
but instead of playing the "me too" side,
like, "Hey, I want to do this also,"
find it's going to be excellent at,
and then,
concentrate capital and people there.
Wouldn't you guys just say that now is
probably the best time it's ever been
for a young prospective founder
to ever become active in India?
-Yeah.
-Because, you know, access to knowledge.
-[Nikhil] Relatively.
-Relatively, yeah.
-To our own powers.
-Exactly.
So, access to knowledge,
thanks to your podcast
and everyone, you know, being part
of the global Internet generation,
is no longer a problem.
-Yeah.
-The size of the local market,
it's been, you know,
larger than it's ever been.
There are enough, you know,
India for the world companies
that are now setting the bar pretty high.
There are enough very successful founders
on the ground,
like yourself or, like,
over here in the US
that anyone can look up to.
Like, I would be, you know, very excited
to not even consider, you know,
moving to the US or maybe come here
for a couple of years
and then go back and build.
By the way, just on that previous point,
I want to say,
I was just talking
about foundational AI layer.
For apps and other,
everything else in the AI layer...
100%. Many reasons to do stuff in India.
Could that be the bigger market?
-Well, 100%.
-[Nikunj] It is.
-[Nikunj] Already.
-Yeah.
I mean, I didn't understand, for example,
why India doesn't have more amazing
gaming companies, you know,
that could be global leaders
for the world.
Because of the amount
of money required to build, like,
a triple-A game is substantial,
and the risk capital for that
is not there.
-But you don't need triple-A games.
-But I think it... Exactly.
I think the future of gaming is
largely not going to be triple-A.
Like, in a world where everyone is
part of the Internet generation,
the more brains you have online,
and the more creativity
you can unlock with AI,
everyone has superpowers.
Can we have, you know,
next generation of, like,
you know, TikTok games,
whatever that means,
from, like, somebody who is 15 years old
and they've been making stuff online
for the previous seven years
somewhere in India?
-That's more likely than ever before.
-You know, I've thought about this a lot.
And I've tried to arrive
at what the answer
to that particular question
should be, could be.
-[Niko] Yeah.
-I think it's cultural.
We, as Indians, from a very young age,
are taught to run away from risk.
We are trained not
to depict any form of rebellion.
Our teachers are not our teachers.
Our teachers are like our gods, where
questioning them is almost offending them.
Religion plays a huge part
in our cultural biases as well.
So, we have, to some extent--
Nobody's going to like this answer,
but, we have, to some extent,
become a society
which does not cherish
or encourage contesting
the norms of the day.
And I think that's bad for innovation.
Is it changing?
I hope it is. I hope it is.
I don't know if evidence depicts that.
But I hope it is
because it will have to change.
No, with access to education...
I mean, ChatGPT's number one market
is now India.
Like, those kind of...
Like, with Jio...
Like, kind of everybody
having access to the Internet.
Like, now it's, like, you know,
fact-checking
and, you know, people say something.
I'm curious.
No, I think the Internet teaches you
many things,
but I think culture is more
of a factor of our schools
and what we see in our homes.
Fair enough.
Can patriotism be sold?
Like you mentioned earlier,
there are a lot of brilliant Indian minds
who are in the US
who are post the financial event.
Yeah.
Where, I don't truly believe him
that it has nothing to do with money,
but they might also want to project
a similar thing.
And, for them, coming back to India
and starting something
and adding patriotism to that same
projection could make a lot of sense.
How can you make patriotism...
How can you make this,
you know, be like really cool?
-Patriotism?
-[Niko] Yeah.
Like what we were saying before, you know,
having kids had become really cool.
Being a patriot and doing the right thing
for your country should be really cool.
Like, it was after the Second World War
in the Western society, right?
I mean, for a funny bit,
Doge kind of did that
for the government in the US.
You know, they've got, like,
really smart people.
There are some of them,
some of our peers are still there.
I think there will have to be unfair
advantages back home in India.
Like, I've not thought about this enough,
but say...
you're a patriotic Indian
who paid X amount of tax
or you came back to India
just for the patriotic pursuit
by giving up something substantial,
maybe there's a toll line on a road,
and you have a separate line.
Yeah.
Maybe you have a card
which treats you differently
with a government agency.
I think some kind of unfair advantage
has to be weaved into the narrative
to make this work,
but if at all it is plausible,
it would be a great thing to attempt.
Like Nikunj said earlier,
there's two stools...
-Yeah.
-[Nikunj] Yeah.
You can get people to be excited
about coming back to India,
which is, a lot of people are,
retaining them when they're back
in India is challenging, I mean...
I think if you could build,
like, a separate city.
See, the one great thing
India has going for it,
I think, personally,
is the labour arbitrage.
A kid living in a hacker house
in San Francisco
is living a certain quality of life.
If I take him back, give him two cars,
two drivers, a cook,
and this and that and the other,
and he's working essentially online
all day long and he still gets to spend,
I don't know, 150 days a year here
while building there,
maybe there's a use case
which works for both.
NRI City. Let's make it happen.
And no air pollution.
Yeah, it doesn't have to be near
any of the big cities.
-Yeah.
This is why, like,
a lot of people move to SF and,
especially, like, people
who are used to the quality of life
of India and others and...
I mean, the quality of life in SF
is horrible.
Yeah, but the reason...
-Like, depending on what...
-Depending on how you...
how you quantify it.
Like, many of the people
that all of us here are meeting,
the 20-year-olds who just moved here
three weeks ago, three months ago,
two years ago,
they're over the moon.
It's as if, you know, they're doing drugs
and their head is, like, exploding
from joy every single moment.
It's because the most common thing
young people,
Niko, you guys both know this,
is, "I have never felt surrounded
by like-minded people in my life,
and now the nerds are here, and they want
to talk about what I want to talk about.
Not like the bullshit that everybody else
wants to talk about."
And that's why people love SF.
That's quality of life.
It's not like walking on the street
or having a maid and driver.
So, for this project to work,
critical mass has to be achieved.
-Yes.
-But I don't know what critical mass is.
What is that number? Do you want to be
surrounded by a hundred nerdy kids?
That could be possible.
Is it 10,000? I don't know.
But it depends
what you're solving for, right?
Because if I'm a nerdy kid
that was bullied my entire life,
I come here, I have
the highest status in this society.
Because here, you know, you're a nerd,
you're, like, top of the line.
It's like, you have your own,
what you said, you know,
your own lane in the highway.
And when you want to pay the tolls,
it's just you, nobody else.
And then, everyone around you
who is a nerd understands you.
You're like, "Oh, my God,
people believe in me."
-Yeah.
-Until now, I was bullied.
This is like insane, you know?
It's like being like a slave
and getting liberated.
[Nikhil] Yeah.
The example I give everybody is,
like, only in SF, in the entire world,
when you quit your job,
everybody says congratulations.
-Yeah. Absolutely.
-That's a great point.
Only city in the world.
This doesn't happen anywhere else.
In India, you're whacked, probably.
Like, your parents are like,
you know, "What are you doing?"
Like, in any other country, it's like,
"Oh, my God, I'm so sorry for you."
Here Niko meets a kid,
he's, like, left the job,
he's like, "Congratulations.
Here's your term sheet."
And again, you know, like,
I think the good news is
that this internet culture for,
like, the young generation
that's chronically online is
becoming a global phenomenon.
Yeah.
And this, where like, you know,
talent is universal,
but opportunity is not,
like, it's raising all boats, right?
So, like, critical mass, you can now
have online in a world of abundance.
Offline, even in a big city, you know?
It's harder to find those people,
if not everyone, you know, is a nerd.
I disagree, though.
I mean, COVID was a great reset.
But it moved right back.
There were a couple of years
that New York City in the US,
in terms of seed states,
was looking back--
Yeah, any neighbourhood in New York,
or like anywhere else you can find it,
but it's just like a magnet effect.
-It is a magnet effect, yeah.
-It's just everybody gets around...
Like, for the past 50 years,
Silicon Valley has done this again
and again and again and again...
It is hard to disrupt network events.
It is hard.
And I'll tell a story about one of my
really, really close friends
from New York. We've, like,
been friends for 12 years.
He moved this year,
and he's lived in maybe, like,
five, six different cities in America.
He came,
and in month three or something,
He's like, "Dude, I found my people."
-Yeah.
-"Where were these people?
Like, this is why I wasn't enjoying
my time in Miami, in New York.
It's like, I don't want to talk
about all that.
I don't want to do all of that."
And it's like, sure, he did it offline
or, like, online as well,
but I think it's just
a different sensation when you're like,
"Shit, man, these are, like,
real people around me
who actually want
to just explore curiosity."
I mean, here are some other things
that we take for granted now,
but no one talks about wealth in SF.
Mm. I disagree.
In some circles, yeah, sure.
But, I mean, compare that to India,
where it's, like, so in-your-face.
Like, how rich somebody is
is so in-your-face.
Here, people don't have to drive
a fancy car to show they're rich,
they don't have to wear fancy clothes
to show they're rich.
-That's one.
-That's great. That's great.
People make economically absurd decisions.
People will reject offers to make
millions and millions of dollars a year
because they believe.
And, like, that just doesn't
happen anywhere else.
God bless all those people,
especially the founding engineers.
God bless them.
We wouldn't do well
if our founders wouldn't do well.
If there's a unique class of people,
founding engineers or founding talent
that show up a day after your company
gets funded or gets started,
then they get, like, one-thirtieth
of the equity that you get.
God bless those people.
-They're the foundation of...
-The true champions of the industry.
...the start up
and venture capital industry.
Well, I think that's a good note
to end tonight on.
I think we spoke
for a fairly long amount of time.
Almost three hours.
But thank you guys for doing this.
-Sorry I troubled you a little bit.
-That's OK.
If you were alone with me,
I would have troubled you a lot more...
[Nikunj] More than welcome to.
-You could have dug ten times deeper.
-Yeah.
Maybe the Internet will dig.
OK, thank you, guys. This was fun.
-[Nikunj] Thank you, Nikhil.
-[Niko] Thank you. Thank you.
-[Deedy] This was very enjoyable.
So, I was going to ask you,
have you seen the reel of yourself...
-I have.
-...imitating you on podcast?
-And what do you think?
I think he's really talented.
I wish I could act that well.
So, actually, I think commented...
or I sent him something
and I said "Great job."
-I think he's doing a good job.
-[Deedy] That's nice.
That's nice.
-When are you inviting him to the podcast?
-[laughter]
Someday soon. Why not, right?